SOURCE PDF: Double-layer optimal scheduling for wind-PV-hydro-hybrid energy storage.pdf
TOTAL PAGES: 16


===== PAGE 1 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                   Energy 336 (2025) 138476                       
                                                                                  
                                Contents lists available at ScienceDirect         
                                                                                  
                                      Energy                                      
                                                                                  
                            journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/energy      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     Double-layer optimal scheduling for wind-PV-hydro-hybrid energy storage      
     system with multi-timescale coordination                                     
                                                                                  
                          *                                                       
     Xiaojuan Han , Xiaoyan Yang , Tianyang Bai                                   
     School of Control and Computer Engineering, North China Electric Power University, Beijing, 102206, China
                                                                                  
     A R T I C L E I N F O  A B S T R A C T                                       
                                                                                  
     Keywords:              A multi-scenario coordinated control method for wind–photovoltaic–hydro–hybrid energy storage system is
     Wind–photovoltaic–hydro–hybrid energy proposed to address the challenges of intensified power fluctuations and underutilized energy storage resulting
     storage system                                                               
                            fromhigh-penetrationrenewableintegration.TypicalwindandphotovoltaicscenariosaregeneratedusingLatin
     Hybrid energy storage                                                        
                            Hypercube Sampling and reduced via an improved Load Curve–ISODATA clustering algorithm to characterize
     Fluctuation suppression                                                      
                            output uncertainty. A mixed-integer programming model is developed to minimize system output variability,
     Auxiliary services                                                           
                            with pumped storage utilized for inter-day energy shifting and battery energy storage for minute-level fluctua-
                            tionsuppression.Powerallocationunderhydropower–storagecouplingconstraintsisoptimizedusingtheGurobi
                            solver. A capacity allocation model is formulated based on the Competition of Tribes and Cooperation of
                            Members(CTCM)algorithmtoenhanceancillaryservicerevenues.Inthisframework,pumpedstorageprioritizes
                            peak-valley arbitrage, while battery energy storage is allocated to fast-response frequency regulation. The
                            effectivenessofthemethodproposedinthispaperwasverifiedthroughsimulationofactualoperatingdatafrom
                            a northwest power grid in China.Calculation results indicate that the method proposed in this paper can reduce
                            system volatility by 12.46 % while increasing revenue by $34,762. The system’s return on investment reaches
                            15.3%,witha paybackperiodof6.1years, effectivelyenhancingboth systemstabilityandeconomicefficiency.
     1. Introduction                      dispatch of renewable energy. However, most of these studies exhibit
                                          certain shortcomings that require further refinement. Hedayatnia A
       With the deepening implementation of the "Dual-Carbon" strategy, et al. [7] proposed a microgrid energy management method based on
     theinstalledcapacityofrenewableenergysources(RES),representedby deep reinforcement learning. Although this approach achieved good
     wind and photovoltaic power, has experienced exponential growth. results in real-time dynamic scheduling of microgrids, it primarily
     However, the large-scale integration of highly volatile wind and focused on short-term energy optimization. It lacked consideration for
     photovoltaic power into the grid poses significant challenges to the comprehensive scheduling across multiple time scales and energy
     reliability and stability of power systems [1,2]. Hydropower, through sources, as well as long-term optimization, limiting its application in
     the rapid operation of turbine units, provides large-scale adjustable large-scale power grids. Sepehrzad R et al. [8]proposed an intelligent
     electricity [3,4]. Building upon this, hydropower units and pumped dynamic energy management approach based on demand response and
     storage units can effectively mitigate the variability and uncertainty of energy storage systems. While this research has made some progress in
     wind-photovoltaic power outputs. Electrochemical energy storage, the dispatch of smart city microgrids, it fails to thoroughly address the
     renowned for its rapid response and high energy conversion efficiency, coordinated dispatch of different energy forms within multi-energy
     significantly curtails RES-induced fluctuations [5,6]. Consequently, complementary systems. Particularly when confronting the fluctua-
     constructing a coordinated wind-photovoltaic-hydro-hybrid energy tions of wind and solar power, the system’s stability and economic
     storage system (WPHHS) has become a critical pathway for enhancing viability remain difficult to guarantee. Sepehrzad R et al. [9] focus on
     the resilience of modern power systems. energy management within integrated energy distribution systems,
       To address the high proportion of new energy integration, recent considering interactions in energy markets and end-user participation.
     studies have proposed various methods to optimize the integration and Their approach effectively manages the variability of different energy
      * Corresponding author.                                                     
       E-mail address: xiaoyanyang73@163.com (X. Yang).                           
     https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2025.138476                                 
     Received 10 July 2025; Received in revised form 8 September 2025; Accepted 10 September 2025
     Available online 11 September 2025                                           
     0360-5442/© 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.


===== PAGE 2 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
     sources through short-term probabilistic scenario optimization. How- on price arbitrage and uncertainty management of wind solar water
     ever, it primarily concentrates on the interaction between electricity storage systems in the mid-term market, which is more suitable for the
     markets and demand response, failing to fully account for the role of mid-term market environment and has good robustness; However, the
     energy storage systems in mitigating variability. Furthermore, it lacks model structure is complex, with numerous parameters, and relies on
     in-depth research on the coordinated optimization of multi-energy sys- refined system modeling and market data. The feasibility of real-time
     tems. The above studies reveal that while significant progress has been scheduling or multi zone system expansion still needs improvement.
     made in microgrids, demand response, and energy management, these Zhang Q et al. [24] proposes a two-stage dispatch optimization model
     approaches generally suffer from inadequate coordination within for wind-solar-hydro-pumped storage multi-energy system. Its main
     multi-energy systems. Most research focuses on optimizing the sched- advantages are clear modeling structure, strong practicality of dispatch
     uling of single energy sources or technologies, failing to fully consider strategy, and the improvement of renewable energy utilization rate
     the synergistic scheduling and optimization of multiple energy forms verified by examples. However, the model does not take into account
     [10–12].                             practical factors such as energy storage response characteristics, energy
       Numerous scholars worldwide have achieved notable progress in efficiencylossandcapacitydegradation,whichlimitsitsapplicationand
     multi-energycomplementaryoptimalschedulingforwind-photovoltaic- promotion under more complex working conditions. Boretti A et al.
     hydro system. Ariyaratna PM et al. [13] developed a cross-regional [25] quantified that Australia’s pure wind-solar grid would require 327
     wind-photovoltaic-hydro complementary system optimization model, GW of wind-solar capacity plus 48 TWh of hydrogen storage (electro-
     demonstrating hydropower’s effectiveness in stabilizing RES fluctua- lyzerpeakcapacity267GW/averagecapacity46GW),aresultconsistent
     tions, yet overlooked the impact of wind-photovoltaic output uncer- with the Royal Society’s projections. However, they did not explore
     taintyunderextremeweatherconditionsonschedulingoutcomes.Zhao nuclearpoweras analternativeforuranium-richAustralia,nordid they
     H et al. [14] employed a multi-agent system to address short-term conduct economic analyses involving multiple investors. Geng C et al.
     wind-photovoltaic-hydro scheduling modeling and optimization, offer- [26] propose a PVsyst-TRNSYS coupled model to optimize hybrid
     ing decision-makers flexible trade-offs between operational efficiency wind-solar-geothermal systems for high-altitude off-grid buildings,
     and costs. However, it failed to account for the high volatility and achieving a 95 % renewable energy share and an electricity cost of
     unpredictability of wind and photovoltaic power, limiting its ability to $0.12/kWh. However, the study fails to quantify carbon emission re-
     manageoperationalrisksunderstrongRESuncertainty.JinXetal.[15] ductions, and the economic model does not account for fluctuations in
     proposedtheSDDPframeworktoaddressthelong-termcomplementary policy subsidies. Jing Z et al. [27] A et al. proposed a cascade
     dispatchofhydro-wind-solarsystems,integratingmultipleuncertainties hydro-wind-solar-storage complementary dispatch framework based on
     with year-end reservoir capacity management. This approach increased a multi-dimensional three-dimensional power generation database.
     channel utilization rates by over 80 %, but its failure to account for They innovatively quantified that reversible pumped hydro storage in-
     short-term volatility limited its fine-tuning capabilities. Tapia Carpio creases renewable energy absorption rates by 40.78 %. However, this
     LG et al. [16] proposed an mean-variance model to optimize regional approach fails to integrate the disruptive impact of climate change on
     combinationsofhydro,wind,andsolarpowerinBrazil.Byconstructing runoffandreliesonsimulatedwindandsolardata.Intheabovestudies,
     an efficient frontier, they achieved smoother output fluctuations, the energy storage system is limited to a single application scenario,
     revealingthatthecurrentwindpowermixisefficientbuthighlyvolatile, resulting in low energy storage utilization and insufficient economy.
     solar power lies far from the frontier, and hydro power is efficient with Regardingmulti-scenarioapplicationsofenergystorage,researchers
     low volatility. However, the model is based solely on resource input have made incremental advancements. Cao Z et al. [28] proposed a
     variability and does not incorporate practical operational conditions dual-objective optimization model based on weight coefficient λ trans-
     such as grid transmission capacity and dispatch constraints. Liu B et al. formation. By solving it with PSO, they obtained the optimal energy
     [17] proposed an opportunity-constrained cascade section nesting storageconfiguration(80kW/625kWhreducingwindpowerfluctuation
     model that leverages hydropower flexibility to coordinate wind and to 18.6 %). However, they did not analyze the sensitivity impact of λ,
     solar integration with transmission bottlenecks. This approach signifi- and the economic model did not incorporate practical factors such as
     cantly reduced curtailment rates for wind and solar power (99.1 % policysubsidies.DicoratoMetal.[29]proposedamarketparticipation
     during the flood season) and smoothed peak-to-valley load differences strategy for wind-storage systems based on dynamic programming,
     (54.4 % reduction). However, it did not extend to multi-stakeholder demonstrating that 15 MW of energy storage can improve schedule
     economic analysis. The above studies are highly dependent on the trackingratesandrespondtoelectricitypricefluctuations.However,the
     flexible regulation capability of hydropower [18], but multiple un- study did not quantify battery degradation costs, and its economic
     certainties, extreme weather and forecast bias can significantly limit its model relies on Italy’s specific subsidy policies. Han X et al. [30] pro-
     regulationeffect,leadingtoreducedunitefficiency[19],increasedwind posed a multi-scenario shared control method for wind-solar hybrid
     and photovoltaic power abandonment rates and reduced system reli- pumped storage, integrating load tracking and ancillary service opti-
                                                           <                      
     ability [20]. Battery energy storage can decouple time rigidity and shift mization to achieve load deviation 2 %. However, this approach does
     fluctuating energy to peak demand; overcome spatial constraints and not incorporate medium-to-long-term hydrological forecasts, and its
     hedge cross-regional errors [21]; protect core equipment and reduce economic model relies on region-specific electricity pricing policies.
     frequent hydropower regulation. The rational use of energy storage in Han X et al. [31] proposed a dual-layer dynamic game optimization
     multi-energy systems can effectively improve the above problems. method to optimize capacity allocation and operational strategies in
       Themulti-energycomplementarysystemwithstoragehasalsomade multi-scenariosharedenergystoragesystems,therebyincreasingannual
     greatachievementsintheresearchonoptimalscheduling.WangHetal. revenueandhigh-valuepeakshavingratios.However,themodelsuffers
     [22] proposes a short-term joint dispatch model for fromhighcomputationalcomplexity,simulationdependencyonspecific
     wind-solar-hydro-storage systems with variable-speed pumped storage data, and insufficient validation of its generalization across all seasonal
                         +                                                        
     units, following the "variable speed unit minimum start-stop princi- variations.Theresultsshowthattheannualtotalincomeandhigh-value
     ple"strategytooptimizesystemfluctuationcontrolandcostefficiencyat peak-shaving rate are the highest under multiple scenarios, and the
     the same time. This study combines the characteristics of complex cost-to-incomeratioisatanacceptablelowlevel.However,theseworks
     pumping units to enhance the adaptability of the model to the actual focused solely on single-type storage system, lacking the adaptability
     operation of the power grid. However, the model has a large amount of required for complex multi-modal scenarios [32].
     calculation when solving, high algorithm complexity, and strong Whensolvingmulti-energycomplementarysystemscontainingclean
     dependenceondataaccuracyandparameters.LiZetal.[23]proposesa RES, researchers usually use optimization algorithms. Jamal R et al.
     mid-term (multi-stage) distributed robust optimization model, focusing [33] proposed an improved artificial hummingbird algorithm for the
                                         2


===== PAGE 3 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
     stochastic optimal reactive power dispatch problem containing renew- Section 2 addresses the uncertainty of wind and PV generation by
     able energy sources that avoids local optimality by enlisting flight and generating typical scenarios using LHS and L-ISODATA. Sections 3
     distance bandwidth motion, combined with Monte Carlo simulation to establish the WPHHS that considers multi-scenario applications of
     deal with wind and water uncertainty. The results show significant optimize operation and ancillary services. Section 4 validates the pro-
     reduction of grid losses, improvement of voltage profile and stability, posed approach through a case study, and Section 5 summarizes the
     and better performance than mainstream optimization algorithms. conclusions and outlines future research directions.
     Modu B et al. [34] proposed a framework for the efficient design and         
     evaluation of independent hybrid renewable energy systems (HRES) to 2. Scenario generation and reduction for wind-photovoltaic
     meet the energy needs of rural communities in northeastern Nigeria, power    
     withthegoalofminimizingtheannualsystemcostofHRES.Atthesame                   
     time, the reliability constraints of the probabilistic loss of power supply 2.1. Wind-photovoltaic scenario generation based on LHS
     (LPSP)wasalsoconsidered.Comparedwithmultiplealgorithms,LF-SSA                
     hasthebestsolution.WangZetal.[35]proposedanewmulti-objective Based on the probability density distributions of wind and photo-
     optimization framework for risk-managed economic dispatch in hybrid voltaic power, a sampling algorithm is employed to generate probabi-
     hydrothermal-wind-photovoltaicsystems(HTWPS).Themulti-objective listic forecast scenarios. LHS, a stratified sampling technique [18],
     artificial rabbit optimization (MOARO) algorithm was used, combined approximates random sampling from multivariate parameter distribu-
     withtheParetocriterionandfuzzytheorytooptimizedispatchdecisions tions.Comparedtoothersamplingmethods,LHSoffershigheraccuracy,
     while balancing costs and risks. Wang Y et al. [36] proposed the smaller sampling sizes, and superior efficiency, thereby improving the
     FORCL-LSHADE improved algorithm for the multi-region dynamic estimation of random variable means and variances while ensuring
     economic dispatch problem exacerbated by wind/light fluctuations by robustness [38]. The LHS process involves two steps: interval sampling
     means of fractional order mutation with a fine learning strategy to and sample correlation sorting.
     optimize uncertainty modeling (based on Weibull/log-normal distribu- Historical wind and photovoltaic power data from Northwest China,
     tion). Han X et al. [37] addresses the problems of uncertainty in which follow log-normal distributions, are used to generate 1,000 sce-
     renewable energy generation and the single operation mode of energy narios via LHS. These scenarios are illustrated in Figs. 1 and 2, where
     storage system, and proposes a cooperative game robust optimization each colored curve represents a potential wind or photovoltaic power
     control method for a wind-photovoltaic hybrid energy storage system output trajectory.
     basedonthedualsettlementmodeloftheelectricitymarket.Simulation               
     results show that the cooperative game robust optimization model 2.2. Scenario reduction based on L-ISODATA
     achieves the optimal operation of the wind-photovoltaic hybrid energy        
     storage system considering multiple uncertainties, which can improve The Iterative Self-Organizing Data Analysis Algorithm (ISODATA) is
     the system’s ability to cope with uncertainty risks and the system’s an unsupervised dynamic clustering method based on statistical pattern
     reliability. The algorithms employed in the above papers emphasize recognition. Similar to the K-means algorithm, ISODATA iteratively
     efficient exploration-exploitation balance, handling renewable energy determines cluster centers by optimizing sample means [39,40]. The L
     uncertainty, and multi-objective optimization. However, they suffer -ISODATA algorithm, an improved version of the ISODATA clustering
     from high computational complexity, parameter sensitivity, slow algorithm,isfirstappliedtoloadcurveclustering[41].Inthisstudy,itis
     convergence, or local optimum issues, which limit their large-scale employed for wind-PV scenario reduction.
     practical application.                 The L-ISODATA further adapts the number of clusters through
       Theprimarycontributionofthispaperliesintheproposalofanovel splitting and merging operations based on data characteristics. The
     multi-scenario coordinated control method that deeply optimizes the scenario valuesatclustercenters areselectedastypicalscenarios,while
     volatility and uncertainty of wind, solar, and hydroelectric hybrid en- the number of scenarios within each cluster is normalized as their
     ergy storage systems. Compared to existing research, this paper’s in- probability relative to the total LHS-generated scenarios. The L-ISO-
     novations are primarily reflected in the following aspects: DATA is applied to reduce the generated wind and photovoltaic power
                                          scenarios.TheresultingtypicalscenariosareillustratedinFigs.3and4.
     1) Innovative Application of the Load Curve-ISODATA (L-ISODATA) To validate the effectiveness of the proposed clustering method, the
       Clustering Algorithm: This paper applies the L-ISODATA clustering          
       algorithm to scenario reduction in multi-energy complementary              
       systems, effectively reducing the computational burden caused by           
       uncertainty and improving optimization efficiency.                         
     2) Introduction of the Competition of Tribes and Cooperation of              
       MembersAlgorithm(CTCM):ThispaperappliestheCTCMalgorithm                    
       to capacity allocation and scheduling optimization in multi-energy         
       systems for the first time, overcoming the vulnerability of existing       
       methodstolocaloptimalsolutionsandimprovingthesystem’sglobal                
       optimization capabilities.                                                 
     3) Multi-scenario and Multi-timescale Coordinated Scheduling: Unlike         
       existing research, this paper not only considers short-term volatility     
       scheduling but also comprehensively considers optimization re-             
       quirements across multiple timescales, effectively improving               
       renewable energy utilization and enhancing system stability and            
       economic efficiency.                                                       
       Through these innovations, the proposed method demonstrates sig-           
     nificant advantages in the scheduling and optimization of multi-energy       
     systems, improving system robustness and economic efficiency while           
     also filling gaps in existing research.                                      
       The subsequent chapters of this paper are organized as follows: Fig. 1. Wind power output scenarios.
                                         3


===== PAGE 4 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
                                          scenario reduction results obtained by L-ISODATA were compared with
                                          those of K-means, ISODATA, and K-means-L-ISODATA (K-L-ISODATA).
                                          The clustering performance was evaluated using the Davies-Bouldin
                                          Index (DBI) and Dunn Index (DI) [42], with comparative results sum-
                                          marized in Table 1.                     
                                            It can be seen in Table 1, the L-ISODATA scenario reduction algo-
                                          rithm exhibits significant advantages in clustering performance. Taking
                                          photovoltaic scenario reduction as an example:
                                            DBI: The L-ISODATA algorithm achieves a DBI value of 0.0066,
                                          which is markedly lower than 1.2245 for K-means and 1.1659 for ISO-
                                          DATA. This demonstrates that L-ISODATA achieves a superior balance
                                          between intra-cluster compactness and inter-cluster separation.
                                            DI:TheL-ISODATAalgorithmattainsthehighestDIvalueof1.1419,
                                          underscoring its exceptional capability in maximizing inter-cluster
                                          distinguishability.                     
                                            Combining the two evaluation indexes of DBI and DI, it can be
                                          concluded that the L-ISODATA algorithm is not only effective in
                                          reducingtheintra-classdispersion,butalsohasanobviousadvantagein
                                          maintaining the inter-class differentiation, which fully reflects the
                                          excellent performance of the algorithm in clustering tasks.
          Fig. 2. Photovoltaic power generation output scenarios.                 
                                          3. Multi scenario optimization scheduling architecture of the
                                          WPHHS                                   
                                          3.1. Optimization scheduling architecture of the WPHHS
                                            WPHHS is mainly composed of wind, photovoltaic generators, hy-
                                          dropower stations, HESS and control center. The Optimization sched-
                                          uling architecture of the WPHHS is shown in Fig. 5.
                                            It can be seen from Fig. 5, the deep coupling of wind power,
                                          photovoltaic power, hydropower and HESS has built an energy system
                                          with multi-energy complementarity and coordinated optimization,
                                          which is conducive to improving the utilization efficiency of renewable
                                          energy and the stability of the power system. As typical intermittent
                                          renewable energy sources, wind power and photovoltaic power are
                                          significantlyaffectedbymeteorologicalconditionsanddiurnalchanges,
                                          showing strong randomness and volatility. In contrast, hydropower
                                          units have superior regulation capabilities, which can improve the sys-
                                          tem’s ability to absorb RES to a certain extent. The introduction of en-
                                          ergy storage systems can further enhance the system’s absorption
                                          capacity and enhance coordination and optimization capabilities.
                                            The HESS consists of battery energy storage (BES) and pumped
            Fig. 3. Typical output scenarios of wind power.                       
                                          storage (PS). Due to its rapid response characteristics, electric energy
                                          storage can effectively suppress short-term fluctuations in wind and
                                          photovoltaic power generation. When used in instantaneous power
                                          buffering scenario, it can improve the quality of electricity and the
                                          stability of grid operation; pumped storage, as a large-capacity, long-
                                          cycle energy storage technology, is good at long-term energy trans-
                                          portation. Through the two-way conversion mechanism of "electric
                                          energy-potential energy", it absorbs excess electricity when wind and
                                          photovoltaic power output is surplus, and releases it at peak load to
                                          alleviate the contradiction between supply and demand of the grid. The
                                          complementary synergy of the two types of energy storage methods
                                          builds a hierarchical, multi-time scale energy storage network, which
                                          effectivelyalleviatesthemismatchbetweentheuncertaintyofwindand
                                          photovoltaic power generation and the load demand of the power grid.
                                          Table 1                                 
                                          Performance comparison of four wind farm scene reduction algorithms.
                                           algorithm wind         photovoltaic    
                                                     DBI    DI    DBI    DI       
                                           K-means   2.2638 0.0023 1.2245 0.0058  
            Fig. 4. Typical output scenarios of photovoltaics. ISODATA 2.1928 0.0030 1.1659 0.0070
                                           K-L-ISODATA 0.0060 2.0581 0.0074 1.0829
                                           L-ISODATA 0.0047 2.0856 0.0066 1.1419  
                                         4


===== PAGE 5 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                            Fig. 5. Optimization scheduling architecture of the WPHHS.
                                                                                  
     As a new type of hybrid power generation system, the WPHHS organi-           
     cally combines wind energy, photovoltaic energy and hydropower, and          
     utilizes the regulation capacity of hydropower stations and electric en-     
     ergy storage to effectively mitigate system output fluctuations and          
     improve the utilization efficiency of renewable energy. At the same          
     time, the multi-energy complementary system can also be used to              
     participate in auxiliary services, fully utilize the system capacity, and    
     increase system benefits.                                                    
     3.2. Multi-scenario two-layer collaborative optimization strategy            
       Based on the WPHHS under multiple time scales, a two-layer                 
     collaborative optimization strategy including optimized operation and        
     ancillary services is constructed, as shown in Fig. 6.                       
       It can be seen in Fig. 6 that the multi-energy complementary system        
     coordinates diverse energy sources through a control center platform to      
     ensure secure and stable operation. The upper-layer model, targeting         
     minimization of system power fluctuations, addresses the inherent            
     randomness and intermittency of wind and photovoltaic generation by          
     establishing a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) framework.            
     This framework focuses on the aggregated system output and average           
     power profile, coordinating energy storage devices and conventional          
     generation units to minimize the mean squared deviation of power             
     fluctuations over the operational horizon. The upper-layer model             
     effectively reduces fluctuation amplitudes, enhancing grid stability.        
       The lower-layer model optimizes economic benefits in ancillary             
     service markets through a CTCM-based remaining capacity allocation           
     strategy, achievingsynergistic maximization of revenue fromfrequency         
     regulation, peak shaving, and peak-valley arbitrage. System revenue          
     originates from two streams:                                                 
     1) Peak-valley arbitrage: Storing energy (e.g., charging storage or          
                                                Fig. 6. Dual layer collaborative optimization strategy.
       pumping water) during low-demand periods with low electricity              
                                         5


===== PAGE 6 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
       prices and discharging/selling energy during high-demand periods ⎧         
                                          ⎪                                       
       with premium prices.               ⎪ ⎪V ≤ V ( t ) ≤ V                      
                                          ⎪ ⎪ umin u umax                         
                                          ⎨                                       
     2) Ancillaryservice compensation:Adjustingpoweroutput tomaintain V ≤ V ( t ) ≤ V
                                            dmin d  dmax                          
                                                                           (6)    
       gridfrequencystabilityandsupply-demandbalance,therebyearning ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ V u ( 1 ) ≤ V u be
       service fees from the grid operator. ⎪ ⎩ V ( 1 ) ≤ Vbe                     
                                            d   d                                 
     3.3. Operation optimization model for WPHHS based on MILP where V and V are minimum storage capacities of the upper and
                                              umin dmin                           
                                          lower reservoirs, respectively; V and V are maximum storage
                                                          umax  dmax              
     3.3.1. Objective function            capacities of the upper and lower reservoirs, respectively; Vbe and Vbe
                                                                        u   d     
       The WPHHS primarily integrates PS and BES into the existing wind-          
                                          are initial storage capacities of the upper and lower reservoirs, respec-
     photovoltaic-hydroframework.Byleveragingtheoperationalflexibility            
                                          tively.                                 
     of energy storage, this system mitigates the randomness, intermittency,      
                                            Water Level-Storage Capacity Coupling Constraints
     andvolatilityinhydro,wind,andphotovoltaicpowergenerationcaused {             
                                            ( ) = ( ( ))                          
     by geographical and meteorological factors, thereby reducing adverse V u t f u Z u t
                                                                           (7)    
                                            ( ) = ( ( ))                          
                                           V t f Z t                              
     impacts on grid security and stability. Therefore, an optimization con- d d d
     trol model is developed with the objective of minimizing system              
                                               ( ) ( )                            
                                          whereZ t andZ t arewaterlevelsoftheupperandlowerreservoirs,
     aggregated output fluctuation.           u    d                              
     ⎧                                    respectively; f                         
                                                  (⋅)                             
                                                    and f                         
                                                       (⋅)                        
                                                        are elevation-storage curves defining the
                                                 u    d                           
     ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ minF 1 = T 1 ∑ T t=1 ( P a ( t )(cid:0) P av ) rela W tio a n te s r hi L p ev b e e l tw Fl e u e c n tu r a e t s i e o r n vo C i o r n c s a t p ra a i c n it t y s and water level, respectively.
     ⎨                                                                            
                                          {                                       
      P ( t ) = P ( t )+ P ( t )+ P ( t )+ P ( t )+ P ( t ) (1) | Z ( T )(cid:0) Z ( 1 )| ≤ ε
     ⎪ a   w  pv  s   ps  d                 u   u                                 
     ⎪                                                                     (8)    
     ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ∑                               | Z u ( t )(cid:0) Z u ( t (cid:0) 1 )| ≤ ω
     ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎩P                                                                     
       av                                                                         
        =                                                                         
         T                                                                        
         1 T                                                                      
           t=1                                                                    
             P                                                                    
             a                                                                    
              ( t )                                                               
                                          whereεiswaterleveldifferenceoftheupperreservoirbetweenthestart
                                          and end of the planning period; ω is water level difference between
     where F is fluctuation index of the system aggregated output; P is           
         1                            av  adjacent scheduling periods.            
     average aggregated output of the WPHHS over one operational cycle; T         
                                            The output constraints of hydro power:
                                     ( )                                          
     is total duration of one operational cycle (24 h in this study); P t is      
                                     a                                            
                                             ≤ ( ) ≤                              
                            ( )           P   P t P                        (9)    
     aggregatedoutputofthesystematmomentt;P t iswindpoweroutput smin s smax       
                            w                                                     
             ( )                    ( )                                           
     atmomentt,P t isphotovoltaicpoweroutputatmomentt,P t isthe                   
            pv                     s                                              
                                          whereP andP aretheminimumandmaximumpoweroutputsof
     power output of the hydropower at moment t, P is the generation or smin smax 
                             ps                                                   
                                          the hydro unit, respectively.           
     pumping power of the pumped storage unit at moment t, P is the dis-          
                                  d                                               
                                            Flow Constraints.                     
     charging power of electric energy storage at moment t.The operational        
                                            Constraints on the generation flow of conventional hydroelectric
     cycle is defined as one day, divided into 96 intervals with a 15-min         
                                          units                                   
     resolution.                                                                  
                                             ≤ ≤                                  
                                          Q   Q  Q                         (10)   
                                           gmin g gmax                            
     3.3.2. Constraints                                                           
                                          whereQ isthedischargeatmomentt;Q andQ aretheminimum
                                              g               gmin gmax           
     1) The output constraints of wind power and maximum discharge, respectively. 
      ≤ ( ) ≤ ( )                                                                 
     0 P t P  t                       (2)                                         
        w   wmax                          4) PS constraints                       
           ( )                                                                    
     where P t is maximum wind power output at moment t.                          
         wmax                                                                     
                                            Pumped storage unit power output constraints
     2) The output constraints of photovoltaic power P ≤ P ≤ P             (11)   
                                           psmin ps psmax                         
      ≤ ( ) ≤ ( )                                                                 
     0 P t P  t                       (3)                                         
        pv  pvmax                                                                 
                                          where P and P are the minimum and maximum generation or
                                              psmin psmax                         
                                          pumping power, respectively.            
           ( )                                                                    
     where P t is maximum photovoltaic power output at moment t.                  
         wmax                                                                     
                                            PS power generation flow constraints  
     3) The output constraints of hydropower Q ≤ Q ( t ) ≤ Q               (12)   
                                           pmin p  pmax                           
                                               ( )                                
       The balance constraints for upper and lower reservoirs of hydro whereQ t istheinstantaneouspumpedstoragePSflow,andQ and
                                              p                          pmin     
     electric power stations:             P  are the minimum and maximum pumped storage power genera-
                                           pmax                                   
                 (cid:0)      )                                                   
                                          tion flow, respectively.                
     V ( t )= V ( t (cid:0) 1 )+ 3600 I ( t )+ Q ( t )(cid:0) Q ( t )(cid:0) Q ( t ) Δt (4)
      u   u       u  p   g   e              Generation head constraints:          
                 (cid:0)      )                                                   
     V d ( t )= V d ( t (cid:0) 1 )+ 3600 I d ( t )+ Q g ( t )(cid:0) Q p ( t )+ Q e ( t ) Δt (5) H i,t = Z u ( t )(cid:0) Z u ( t (cid:0) 1 ) (cid:0) Z d ( t )(cid:0) Z d ( t (cid:0) 1 ) (13)
                                                 2        2                       
          ( )  ( )                                                                
     where V t and V t represent the storage capacity of the upper and            
         u    d                                                                   
     lowerwarehousesatmomentt,respectively;I ( t ) andI ( t ) representthe where H i,t is the generation head of hydropower or pumped storage at
                           u    d                                                 
                                          moment t.                               
     incomingwaterflowrateoftheupperandlowerreservoirsatmomentt,                  
             ( )                            Constraints on unit output characteristic relationships
     respectively; Q t is the power generation flow rate of PS/hydropower         
            g                                                                     
                                          {      (cid:0) )                        
             ( )                                                                  
     atmomentt;Q p t isthepumpingflowrateoftwopumpingandstorage P s ( t ) = f 1,nhq (cid:0)Q g ( t ), H i ( t ) )
     units at moment t; Q e ( t ) is the ecological flow of the power station at P ps ( t ) = f 2, nhq Q p ( t ), H i ( t ) (14)
     moment t; Δt is the step size of the calculation period.                     
       Constraints on storage capacity size                                       
                                         6


===== PAGE 7 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
     where f 1,nhq and f 2,nhq represent functions of the relationship between    
                                          Q and H are the endpoint values for each interval of flow and level,
                                           n   n                                  
     output, flow rate and head for hydropower and pumped storage, +              
                                          respectively. For any range from n to n 1, and can be expressed in
     respectively.                                                                
                                          equation (22).                          
       State of charge (SOC) constraints: {                                       
       The remaining water volume in the upper reservoir can be analo- Q = α 0 Q n +α 1 Q n+1
                                                                           (22)   
     gized to the SOC of a battery, mathematically defined as: H = δ 0 H n +δ 1 H n+1
           ( )                                                                    
     SOC ( t )= V u t                 (15) where α 0 、 α 1 、 δ 0 、 δ 1 are all positive real numbers.
       P                                                                          
          V                                                                       
           umax                             The relationship between the output of unit P, the flow rate and the
                                          head can be expressed as (23), where the output of unit P can be
           ( )                                                                    
     where SOC t is the remaining available water volume percentage at            
           P                                                                      
                                          expressedfromnonlineartolinearintermsofaandb.Theoutputofunit
     moment t.                                                                    
                                          P can be expressed in terms of λ and p .
                                                          ij ij                   
                                          ⎧                                       
     5) Ramp Rate Constraints             ⎪                                       
     {                                    ⎪ ⎨p ij = H i Q j                       
      (cid:0) (cid:0) Δ Δ P P s ps ≤ ≤ P P s ( p t s ( + t + 1 ) 1 (cid:0) )(cid:0) P s P ( t p ) s ( ≤ t ) Δ ≤ P Δ s P ps (16) ⎪ ⎪ ⎩P = ∑ n i= 1 1 ∑ n j= 2 1 λ ij p ij (23)
     where ΔP and ΔP are the maximum ramp rates of the hydro unit and             
          s   ps                          where p is the intermediate variable; λ is the combination coefficient.
                                              ij             ij                   
     pumped storage unit, respectively.                                           
                                          ThelinearizationoftheotherequationsiscitedinRefs.[44–46]andwill
                                          not be repeated here.                   
     6) constraints of BES                                                        
       SOC Constraints:                   3.4. CTCM-based optimization control for the WPHHS in grid ancillary
                ⎧∫                                                                
                                          services                                
                ⎪ P ( t )×η                                                       
                ⎪ ⎨ c c                                                           
                    E                                                             
     SOC ( t )= SOC ( t (cid:0) 1 )+ ∫ (17) After meeting load demand and smoothing out the system output
                ⎪                                                                 
                ⎪ ⎩ P ( t )×η                                                     
                   d  d                   fluctuations, the WPHHS typically retains surplus capacity, including
                    E                                                             
                                          idle BES capacity, output margins of PS, and generation flexibility of
                                          hydroelectric units (treated equivalently to PS in this study). To fully
         ≤  ( ) ≤                                                                 
     SOC  SOC t SOC                   (18)                                        
       min      max                                                               
                                          utilize these underused resources and maximize revenue, a multi-
          ( )                             scenario utilization model is developed for deploying surplus system
     whereSOC t isthestateofcharge(SOC)oftheenergystoragesystemat                 
                                          capacity in ancillary services. System operators can leverage this ca-
     moment t; P is the discharging power of electric energy storage at           
           d                                                                      
     moment t; η and η are the charging/discharging efficiency of the en- pacity to participate in electricity market transactions (e.g., frequency
           c   d                                                                  
                                          regulation, peak shaving, and energy arbitrage), generating additional
     ergy storage system at moment t, respectively; E is the BES capacity;        
                                          profits through flexible dispatch of storage and hydro resources.
     SOC and SOC are the lower and upper SOC limits of the system,                
       min   max                                                                  
     respectively.                                                                
                                          3.4.1. Objective function               
       BES charge/discharge power constraints                                     
     ⎧                                                                            
     ⎪ ⎪ ⎨ 0 ≤ P c ( t ) ≤ γ c ( t ) P cmax 1 The objective function is formulated as follows:
      0 ≤ P ( t ) ≤ γ ( t ) P                                                     
         d   d dmax                   (19)    =  + +                              
     ⎪ ⎪ γ ( t )+γ ( t ) = 1              maxF 2 C ab C fr C pr            (24)   
     ⎩ c  d                                                                       
      γ ( t ),γ ( t ) ∈ { 0 , 1 }                                                 
       c d                                                                        
                                          where F denotes the total revenue; C represents the revenue from
                                              2              ab                   
     whereP cmax andP dmax aremaximumcharginganddischargingpowerof peak-valley arbitrage, and C fr and C pr denote the revenues from
     the system, respectively; γ ( t ) and γ ( t ) charge/discharge status vari- participating in frequency regulation and peak shaving services,
                  c    d                                                          
     ables of the system at moment t, taking values 0 or 1. respectively.         
                                                (                                 
                                             ∑                                    
     7) System power balance constraints  C =  T y ( t ) p ( t )(cid:0) y ( t ) p ( t )+
                                           ab  t=1 g g p  p                       
                                                                           (25)   
      ( )+ ( )+ ( )+ ( )+ ( )(cid:0) ( ) = ( )                                    
     P t P t P t P t P t P t P t      (20)                                        
      w  pv  s   ps  d   c  load           ( ) ( )(cid:0) ( ) ( ))                
                                          y t p t y t p t                         
                                           d d1  c c1                             
           ( )                                                                    
     where P t is electric load power.                                            
         load                                  ( ) ( )                            
                                          wherey t andy t denotetheelectricitypricesforunitgenerationand
                                              g    p                              
                                                             ( )  ( )             
                                          pumping consumption at moment t; p t and p t represent the power
     3.3.3. Model solving                                    g   p                
                                          outputs of generation and pumping for PS at moment t, respectively;
       Theoptimalschedulingmodelforfluctuationsmoothingscenariosis                
                                           ( )  ( )                               
                                          y t and y t denote the electricityprices fordischarging and charging
     a high-dimensional nonlinear model with complex constraints. It is d c       
                                                      ( )   ( )                   
                                          of BES at moment t; p t and p t represent the power outputs of
     difficult to solve this model directly. Therefore, the complex scheduling d1 c1
                                          discharging and charging for BES at moment t.
     model is transformed into a MILP problem [43] via a linear trans-            
                                             ∑                                    
     formation and solved by Gurobi, a commercial solver in Matlab. = T ( ( )+ ( ))
                                          C     y p t y p t                (26)   
       Accordingto(14),itcanbeseenthatthereisanonlinearrelationship fr t=1 s s2 e e
     between the output of the unit, flow rate and head. The triangular           
                                          where y and y denote the frequency regulation capacity prices of PS
                                              s   e                               
     weight method is used to linearize it. Firstly, the flow and head are        
                                                            ( ) ( )               
                                          andbatterystorage,respectively;p t andp t representtheallocated
                                                           s2   e                 
     divided into two intervals, n1-1 and n2-1, which can be expressed as         
                                          frequency regulation power of PS and battery storage at moment t,
     equation (21)                                                                
                                          respectively.                           
     {                                                                            
      Q min = Q 0 < Q 1 < Q 2 < … < Q n < … < Q n1(cid:0) 1 (21) = ∑ T ( ( )+ ( ))
      H min = H 0 < H 1 < H 2 < … < H n < … < H n2(cid:0) 1 C pr t=1 y s1 p s3 t y e1 p e1 t (27)
                                         7


===== PAGE 8 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
                                          the velocity matrix of the society; p indicates the population size in the
     where y and y denote the peak shaving prices of PS and BES,                  
         s1   e1                                                                  
             ( )   ( )                    primitive society; n signifies the number of tribes; m corresponds to the
     respectively; p t and p t represent the allocated peak shaving               
            s3    e1                                                              
                                          number of members per tribe; d denotes the dimensionality of the so-
     power of PS and BES at moment t, respectively.                               
                                          lution space.                           
      2 .                                                                         
                                          2) Cooperation of members (exploitation)
     3.4.2. Constraints                                                           
                                            Within a tribe, the chief manages and strategizes the tribe’s future
                                          development. While most members adhere to the chief’s plans and di-
     1) Frequency regulation-related constraints                                  
     {                                    rectives, each member retains individual autonomy, leading to fluctu-
      0 ≤ p ( t ) ≤ σ p ( t )             ating loyalty over time. This loyalty exhibits chaotic behavior as
         s2  1 1 max                                                              
                                      (28)                                        
      0 ≤ p e ( t ) ≤ σ 2 p 2 max ( t )   temporal iterations progress, and the chaotic dynamics become more
                                          pronounced as the number of tribes increases. To model this phenom-
     where σ and σ denote the maximum percentage of rated power allo-             
         1   2                            enon,theconceptofasinechaoticmapisintroducedtocharacterizethe
     catedtofrequencyregulationcapacityforPSandBES, respectively,and              
                                          evolution of member loyalty.            
     p  and p represent the maximum allowable power output of PS ⎧                
      1max 2max                                                                   
                                            ⎨U ( 0 , 1 ), if t = km , k ∈ Z       
     and BES at moment t, respectively.                                           
                                               (   )                              
                                          r =  π                           (32)   
                                           t ⎩   (cid:0) ,                        
                                             sin r 1 else                         
                                                t                                 
     2) Peak shaving-related constraints       2                                  
     {                                                                            
      0 ≤ p ( t ) ≤ ς p ( t )             where r denotes the loyalty of an individual member.
         s3  1 1max                   (29)    t                                   
      0 ≤ p ( t ) ≤ ς p ( t )               Each member consults the tribal chief to receive directives for their
         e1  2 2 max                                                              
                                          nextaction.Whileadheringtothesedirectives,thememberincorporates
     where ς 1 and ς 2 denote the maximum percentage of rated power allo- its own experiential knowledge, which supplements decision-making
     cated to peak shaving for PS and BES, respectively. with a stochastic element to diversify potential actions.
       Other constraints related to hydroelectric units, PS, and BES align ( )    
                                              3                                   
     with those defined in Section 3.4.2 and are not reiterated here. Vt+1 = Vt + c rt Xbest (cid:0) Xt
                                           n,m,d                                  
                                              5                                   
                                               n,m,d                              
                                                   (                              
                                                   1 1,n,m,d n,m,d                
                                                         )                        
                                                           n,m,d                  
                                                                           (33)   
                                              + c rt Xbest (cid:0) Xt             
     3.4.3. Model solving                      2 2,n,m,d tribe n,m,d              
       The CTCM is employed to solve the HESS capacity allocation model.          
     The schematic diagram of the CTCM mechanism is illustrated in Fig. 7. whereVt+1 andVt denotethevelocitiesofthem-thmemberinthen-
                                              n,m,d n,m,d                         
       It can be seen from Fig. 7, the CTCM mimics early human tribes’ th tribe at time t + 1 and t, respectively; Xbest represents the best fitness
                                                              n,m,d               
     settlement-seeking behavior through four core mechanisms: coopera-           
                                          position of the member across the entire optimization horizon; Xt
                                                                           n,m,d  
     tion, competition, migration, and conflict. The optimization process of      
                                          signifies the position of the member at time t; Xbest denotes the best
     the algorithm unfolds as follows:                             tribe          
                                          fitness position of the n-th tribe; c and c correspond to the weights for
                                                           1  2                   
                                          experiential adherence and chief compliance of the tribe member,
     1) Initialization                                                            
       ⎡ ⎤      ⎡ ⎤                       respectively; and rt and rt represent the chaotic loyalty co-
                                                    1,n,m,d 2,n,m,d               
        X        V                                                                
         1       1                        efficients of individual members, governed by the sine chaotic map
       ⎢ ⎥      ⎢ ⎥                                                               
     X =⎢ ⎣ X 2⎥ ⎦ ∈Rp×d, V =⎢ ⎣ V 2⎥ ⎦ ∈ Rp×d (30) dynamics.                     
        ⋯        ⋯                                                                
        X        V                                                                
         n       n                                                                
                                          3) Competition of tribes (exploration)  
        ⎡        ⎤                                                                
        V n,1,1 V n,1,2 ⋯V n,1,d                                                  
     V n                                                                          
       = ⎢ ⎢                                                                      
        ⎣                                                                         
        V                                                                         
        ⋯                                                                         
         n                                                                        
         ⋯                                                                        
          ,2,1                                                                    
           ⋯                                                                      
           V                                                                      
            ⋯                                                                     
            n,2,2 ⋯V n,2,d ⎥ ⎥                                                    
                 ⎦                                                                
                  ∈ Rm×d                                                          
                                      (31) wea                                    
                                            S                                     
                                            k                                     
                                             t                                    
                                             e                                    
                                             o                                    
                                             r                                    
                                             ch                                   
                                              tr                                  
                                               a                                  
                                               i                                  
                                               s                                  
                                               b                                  
                                                t                                 
                                                e                                 
                                                ic                                
                                                s (t                              
                                                  i                               
                                                  h                               
                                                  n                               
                                                   o                              
                                                   te                             
                                                   s                              
                                                    r                             
                                                    e                             
                                                    -t                            
                                                    w                             
                                                     ri                           
                                                     i                            
                                                     b                            
                                                      th                          
                                                      al                          
                                                       lo                         
                                                        c                         
                                                        w                         
                                                        o                         
                                                         e                        
                                                         n                        
                                                         r                        
                                                          fl                      
                                                          fi                      
                                                          ic                      
                                                           tn                     
                                                           ts                     
                                                            ess                   
                                                             oc                   
                                                             v                    
                                                              c                   
                                                              a                   
                                                              u                   
                                                               lu                 
                                                               r                  
                                                               es                 
                                                                d                 
                                                                )                 
                                                                 u                
                                                                 a                
                                                                 r                
                                                                  r               
                                                                  i               
                                                                  e               
                                                                  ng              
                                                                   pru            
                                                                    it            
                                                                     n            
                                                                     e            
                                                                     e            
                                                                     r            
                                                                      d           
                                                                      at          
                                                                       o          
                                                                       io         
                                                                       r          
                                                                        n         
                                                                        d         
                                                                        s         
                                                                         i        
                                                                         ,        
                                                                         sp       
                                                                          w       
                                                                          la      
                                                                           h      
                                                                           c      
                                                                           e      
                                                                           e      
                                                                            r     
                                                                            d     
                                                                            e     
                                                                             ,    
        V n,m,1 V n,m,2 ⋯V n,m,d          while stronger tribes (higher fitness) remain unaffected and continue
                                          dominating resource allocation.         
                                                  (      )                        
     where X denotes the initial position of the entire society; V represents     
                                          Rt = c rt Xt (cid:0) Xbest              
                                           n,m,d 3 3,n,m,d n,m,d rival            
                                              ⎧                                   
                                              ⎨ Vt+1 (cid:0) Rt , if Fbest < Fbest (34)
                                          Vt+1 = n,m,d n,m,d n rival              
                                           n,m,d ⎩ Vt+1 ,                         
                                                  else                            
                                                n,m,d                             
                                          whereXbest denotesthebestpositiondiscoveredbyopposingtribes;Fbest
                                              rival                        n      
                                          represents the best fitness value of the n-th tribe; Fbest signifies the best
                                                                   rival          
                                          fitness value of opposing tribes; c corresponds to the tribal escape co-
                                                           3                      
                                          efficientgoverningretreatdynamicsduringconflicts;rt denotesthe
                                                                     3,n,m,d      
                                          chaotic stochastic factor modulating retreat velocity, derived from sine
                                          chaoticmapiterations.Theremainingcapacityallocationprocessbased
                                          on the CTCM algorithm [47] is illustrated in Fig. 8.
                                            The specific solution steps are as follows:
                                          1) Retrieve the remaining capacity and state constraints of system
                                            components at each time step from the control model;
                                          2) Determine the capacity allocation scheme with the objective of
                                            maximizing revenue;                   
              Fig. 7. Principle of CTCM algorithm.                                
                                         8


===== PAGE 9 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                           Fig. 8. The process of HESS capacity allocation based on CTCM.
     3) Initialize the population size and maximum iterations for the TheoveralllogicalstructureofthispaperisillustratedinFig.9,with
       algorithm;                         the specific workflow as follows: First, uncertainty optimization pro-
     4) Obtaintheoptimalallocationresultsviaiterativeoptimizationusing cessing for wind and solar energy is conducted at the input layer. Using
       the CTCM algorithm.                the LHS method, a large number of wind and solar scenarios are
                                          generated. Subsequently, the L-ISODATA is employed to select typical
     3.4.4. Cost-benefit analysis         scenarios. Concurrently, quantitative analysis of DBI and DI is per-
                                          formed to ensure the representativeness and rationality of the selected
     1. System annualized net income      typical scenarios. Second, the optimization layer constructs a two-tier
     {                                    optimization strategy for multi-energy complementary systems across
        =  (cid:0)                                                                
      R  R  C                                                                     
       net tot opex                       multiple timescales: the upper layer minimizes system fluctuation
                                      (35)                                        
      C opex = C fix + Cb va e r s + Cp va h r s + Cb d e e s g handling volume as its core objective, solved using the MILP approach;
                                          thelowerlayermaximizesancillaryservicerevenueasitskeyobjective,
     Where R is the system annualized net income, R is the annualized solved using the CTCM algorithm. Finally, the output layer conducts
         net                  tot                                                 
     total income and C is the annualized operation and maintenance phased validation and assessment: First, the foundational effectiveness
               opex                                                               
     cost.C ,Cbes,C phs ,andCbes arefixedoperationandmaintenancecosts, of the optimization strategy is verified through system volatility vali-
        fix var var deg                                                           
                                          dation and ancillary service revenue validation. Subsequently,
     batteryvariableoperationandmaintenancecosts,PSvariableoperation              
                                          comprehensive stability and overall performance under various oper-
     and maintenance costs, and battery degradation costs, respectively.          
                                          ating conditions are evaluated through multi-scenario robustness vali-
                                          dation and multi-dimensional performance assessment.
     2. Return on investment and payback period                                   
     ⎧                                                                            
     ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ROI = R net × 100%            4. Case study                           
     ⎪                                                                            
     ⎪    C                                                                       
     ⎨    capex                                                                   
         C                            (36) 4.1. Data sources and parameter settings
     ⎪ ⎪T = capex                                                                 
     ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪ p R net                                                              
     ⎩                                                                            
         =  +                               Thedatais sourcedfromadomesticpowerplantwith950MWwind
      C   C  C                                                                    
       capex bes phs                                                              
                                          and 910 MW photovoltaic capacities. The hybrid pumped storage plant
                                          comprises two reservoirs and one pumping station, with data recorded
     Where ROI and T represent the return on investment and payback               
              p                                                                   
                                          at 15-min resolution. The water level difference between the upper and
     period, respectively; C is the capital expenditures, C and C are             
                capex           bes  phs                                          
                                          lowerreservoirsismaintainedwithinε = 0 . 25m,andtheinter-temporal
     the capital costs of BES and PS, respectively.                               
                                          water level fluctuation is constrained below ω = 0 . 1 m to prevent
                                         9


===== PAGE 10 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                    Fig. 9. A dual-layer optimization framework and validation system for multi-time-scale WPHHS.
     destabilizing effects on the coastal slope [48]. Parameters for hydro-       
                                          Table 3                                 
     power and PS are listed in Tables 2 and 3.                                   
                                          Characteristic parameters of hydropower and pumped storage.
       The energy storage system employs lithium iron phosphate batteries         
     configured with 50 MW/100 MWh capacity and charge/discharge effi- Reservoir NormalWater Minimumwater Initialwater Inflowrate
                                                level(m) level(m) Level(m) (m3/s) 
     ciency of 0.95. TheSOC limits for the battery and PS are set to [0.1 0.9]    
     and[0.11],respectively.TheunitcostofBESisUSD245/kW.PSutilizes Upper 1105 1059 1100 60
                                           Lower 956    920      959    0         
     existing power plant capacity expansion and retrofitting, with a con-        
     verted cost of approximately USD 50/kW. Operating and maintenance            
     costsaresetat1.5%oftotalinvestmentperannum.Thepaybackperiod                  
     is 15 years, with a discount rate of 8 % [49,50].The time-of-use (TOU) Table 4
     electricity price, frequency regulation capacity price, and peak shaving Time of use electricity price, peak shaving and frequency regulation capacity
                                          price.                                  
     capacity price are detailed in Table 4.                                      
                                           Type            Timeperiod  PS  BES    
                                           Peakpriceperiod(USD/MWh) 8:00–12:00;17:00–21:00 109 109
     4.2. Comparison of system output smoothing effects under different Valleypriceperiod(USD/MWh) 0:00–8:00 46 46
     schemes                               Normalpriceperiod(USD/MWh) 12:00–17:00;21:00–24:00 87 87
                                           Peakshaving(USD/MWh) /       7  10     
                                           Frequencyregulation(USD/MWh) / 17 24   
       In order to clearly analyze the specific role of the WPHHS in              
     smoothing out volatility, we can start our analysis by comparing the         
     following two systems:                                                       
       Wind-PV-hydro system (WPHS): The WPHS represents a conven-                 
     tional wind-PV-hydro control approach that coordinates wind energy,          
     PV power generation, and hydropower without incorporating any en-            
     ergy storage systems. In this system, electricity generated from wind,       
     PV, and hydropower is directly used to meet load demand. When gen-           
     eration is insufficient, power is purchased from the external grid to        
     bridge the gap.                                                              
       Wind-PV-hydro system with pumped storage system (WPHPS): The               
     WPHPS extends the WPHS by integrating a pumped storage system,               
     whichregulatesenergysupplythroughwaterpumpinganddischarging.                 
       The model is solved using Gurobi, with the system fluctuation miti-        
     gation performance of different dispatch systems illustrated in Fig. 10      
     and Table 5.                                                                 
       It can be seen from Fig. 9 and Table 5, the WPHS exhibits a system         
     output fluctuation of 81.60 MW, with wind and photovoltaic curtail-          
     mentratesof21.3%and18.95%,respectively,attributed tothelackof                
     energy storage. In the WPHPS, the integration of PS reduces the fluc-        
     tuation to 72.73 MW and lowers wind and photovoltaic curtailment             
     Table 2                                                                      
                                             Fig. 10. Comparison of calming effects under different systems.
     Characteristic parameters of hydropower and PS.                              
      Type  Maximum Maximum Maximum Climbrate rates to 4.46 % and 10.05 %, thereby improving energy utilization. The
            power   pumping flow(m3/s) (MW/                                       
                                          WPHHS, which combines pumped storage and battery ESS, exhibits the
            generation power(MW)   15min)                                         
                                          lowest fluctuation (71.43 MW) compared to the two aforementioned
            (MW)                                                                  
                                          systems,itachievesreductionsof12.46%and1.78%,respectively.And
      Hydropower 440 /      630    70                                             
                                          it eliminates curtailment (0 % for both wind and PV). These results
      PS    400     360     585    70                                             
                                         10


===== PAGE 11 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
     Table 5                                                                      
     Characteristic parameters of different models.                               
      System Fluctuation WindCurtailmentRate PVCurtailmentRate                    
           (MW)    (%)        (%)                                                 
      WPHS 81.60   21.23      18.95                                               
      WPHPS 72.73  4.46       10.05                                               
      WPHHS 71.43  0           0                                                  
     demonstrate that integrating pumped storage and BES enhances energy          
     utilization and strengthens the system’s coordinated control                 
     capabilities.                                                                
       Fig. 11 shows the output curves of the WPHHS.                              
       It can be seen in Fig. 11, during the 00:00–05:00 period with low          
     load demand and high wind power output, the surplus wind power is            
     primarily absorbed by the PS through pumping operations. In the              
     05:00–13:45 and 17:00–22:15 periods, when load demand exceeds                
     renewable generation, the hydropower and PS (in generation mode)             
     compensate for the energy deficit, while the battery storage collabora-      
     tively mitigates system output fluctuations. During 13:45–17:00,             
                                               Fig. 12. Changes in water level of the upper reservoir.
     renewable generation continuously exceeds load demand, with the              
     surplus energy absorbed by both pumped storage pumping and battery           
                                          scenario-based analysis is conducted for the hydropower plant during
     charging. Thus, the WPHHS significantly reduces output fluctuations,         
                                          wet, normal, and dry seasons, with the smoothing effectiveness sum-
     improves energy utilization, and eliminates wind and photovoltaic            
                                          marized in Table 6.                     
     curtailment while reliably meeting base load requirements.                   
                                            It can be seen in Table 6 that the integration of pumped storage and
       Fig. 12 illustrates the water level variation curve of the upper           
                                          BES systems significantly reduces system output fluctuations across all
     reservoir in the hydropower station during system fluctuation mitiga-        
                                          hydrologicalseasons,withtheWPHHSachieving12.46%,16.05%,and
     tion using the WPHHS.                                                        
                                          20.61 % reductions in output fluctuations during wet, normal, and dry
       It can be seen in Fig. 12 that during 00:00–05:00 period, the PS           
                                          seasons compared to the WPHPS, respectively, where the dry season
     operateinpumpingmode,raisingthewaterleveloftheupperreservoir.                
                                          exhibits the most notable improvement. From the overall trend, the
     From 05:00–13:45 and 17:00–22:15, when load demand exceeds wind              
                                          volatility of the system shows a decreasing law with the change of hy-
     andphotovoltaicgeneration,thehydrounitsincreasewaterdischargeto              
                                          drological period: it is the largest during the Wet season, the second
     meet energy deficits, resulting in a decline in the upper reservoir level.   
                                          largestduringthenormalseason,andthesmallestduringthedryseason.
     Between 13:45–17:00, reduced load demand triggers pumping opera-             
                                          This phenomenon mainly stems from the difference in the peak adjust-
     tions by the PS, elevating the upper reservoir level to enhance genera-      
                                          mentabilityofhydropowersystemsindifferenthydrologicalconditions:
     tion efficiency. In the 22:00–24:00 period, as load demand diminishes,       
                                          in the wet season, hydropower mainly undertakes base load operation,
     the hydro units resume pumping, causing the upper reservoir level to         
                                          and its peak adjustment ability and regulation ability for wind power
                             <                                                    
     rise. The total water level decline (0.22 m 0.25 m, the safety               
                                          generation are relatively weak; while in the dry season, hydropower
     threshold) remains within operational limits, ensuring system stability.     
                                          systems have the optimal regulation performance, and thus the system
                                          fluctuationisthesmallest.Thiscorrelationbetweenhydrologicalseason
     4.3. Comparative analysis of smoothing effects under different and system volatility reflects the important role of hydropower regula-
     hydrological conditions              tion capability in power system stability.
       To investigate the fluctuation mitigation performance of the hybrid        
                                          4.4. Economic comparison for the WPHHS under different operational
     complementary system under different hydrological conditions, a              
                                          strategies                              
                                            To quantify the comprehensive benefits of utilizing surplus capacity
                                          for ancillary services, this study designs coordinated control strategies
                                          between PS and the BES using a controlled variable method, as follows:
                                            Strategy 1: PS prioritize peak-valley arbitrage; Battery storage fo-
                                          cuses on peak shaving and frequency regulation.
                                            Strategy 2: PS prioritizes peak-valley arbitrage; BES operates in
                                          multi-scenario mode (simultaneous arbitrage, peak shaving, and fre-
                                          quency regulation).                     
                                            Strategy 3: PS and BES operate in multi-scenario mode.
                                            Strategy4:PSadoptsmulti-scenariooperations;BESprioritizespeak
                                          shaving and frequency regulation.       
                                          Table 6                                 
                                          The effect of stabilizing system fluctuations under different hydrological
                                          conditions.                             
                                           Systems Wetseason(MW) Normalseason(MW) Dryseason(MW)
                                           WPHS  81.60     69.95     58.61        
                                           WPHPS 72.73     60.23     47.87        
                                           WPHHS 71.43    58.72      46.53        
            Fig. 11. System output curve of the WPHHS.                            
                                         11


===== PAGE 12 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
       TheCTCMoptimizationalgorithmisappliedtosolvethemodel,with                  
     theeconomicperformancecomparisonsacrossstrategiessummarizedin                
     Table 7.                                                                     
       It can be seen in Table 7, Strategy 4 achieves the highest system          
     revenue at 34,762 USD, while Strategy 3 yields the lowest revenue            
     at28,770 USD,whichis17.23%lowerthanStrategy4. Strategy2ranks                 
     secondwitharevenueof33,084USD,trailingStrategy4by4.83%.This                  
     variation results from the distinct technical advantages of BES and PS:      
     BES excels in fast response and high energy conversion efficiency,           
     maximizing revenue when fully allocated to frequency regulation ser-         
     vices, whereas PS leverage long-duration energy storage capabilities to      
     dominate peak-valley arbitrage while partially participating in peak         
     shaving and frequency regulation to enhance earnings.                        
       Under Strategy 4, the CTCM capacity allocations and revenue dis-           
     tributions for PS and BES are detailed in Fig. 13 and Table 8.               
       It can be seen in Fig. 13 and Table 8, BES prioritizes frequency           
     regulationservicesduetotheirhighestrevenuecontribution(77.81%of              
     total system revenue), allocating 637 MW of capacity to frequency            
     regulation and the remaining capacity to peak shaving. For PS, simul-        
     taneous participation in three ancillary services maximizes revenue:         
     946 MW for peak-valley arbitrage, 835 MW for peak shaving, and 803           
     MW for frequency regulation. The revenue distribution is dominated by        
     frequency regulation (50.72 %), followed by peak-valley arbitrage            
     (29.54%)andpeakshaving(19.74%).Thisallocationreflectsthelower                
     frequencyregulationrevenueofPScomparedtobatterystorage,making                
     full capacity dedication to frequency regulation suboptimal, and the         
     need to balance volatile arbitrage gains (due to fluctuating peak-valley     
     electricity prices) with other services to mitigate risks. Overall, Strat-   
     egy 4 effectively reduces idle capacity by deploying 1,033 MW for peak       
     shaving, 960 MW for frequency regulation, and 946 MW for arbitrage,          
     demonstrating synergistic utilization of PS and BES.                         
       To more balancedly assess the economic feasibility of hybrid energy        
     storage systems, this section further introduces capital expenditure         
     (CAPEX) and operation and maintenance expenditure (OPEX), and uses           
     the return on investment (ROI) and payback period indicators for an          
     expanded analysis. The results are shown in Table 9.                         
       As shown in Table 9, after accounting for CAPEX and OPEX, all four         
     strategies achieve positive returns, with payback periods of less than 8     
     years, significantly shorter than the 15-year economic lifecycle of a        
     hybrid energy storage system. Strategy 4 performs best, achieving an         
     ROIof15.3%andapaybackperiodof6.1years.Thisnotonlyincreases                   
     system revenue (an additional $34,762 compared to the baseline) but          
                                                Fig. 13. Capacity allocation results based on CTCM.
     also demonstrates strong economic viability. Strategies 1–3, with ROIs       
     of9.2%,11.4%,and12.6%,respectively,andpaybackperiodsranging                  
                                          from 9.7 % to 19.7 %. This result demonstrates that a higher peak-to-
     from6.9to7.8years,alsodemonstrateconsiderableinvestmentappeal.               
                                          valley price difference can help improve system profitability and re-
       Time-of-use pricing serves as a crucial mechanism for enhancing the        
                                          turn on investment, but it also suggests that the impact of electricity
     economic efficiency and reliability of power systems. To investigate the     
                                          price fluctuations on system operations must be comprehensively
     impact of electricity pricing on system benefits, this study employs         
                                          considered during implementation.       
     multiple pricing schemes for sensitivity analysis: while maintaining the     
     benchmark off-peak rate unchanged, the peak-to-off-peak price ratio is       
     set within the range of 1–7 [51]. The comparative results are presented 4.5. Economic comparison across optimization algorithms
     in Fig. 14.                                                                  
       It can been seen from Fig. 14, as the peak-to-valley ratio increases, Tovalidatetheeffectivenessandsuperiorityof theCTCMalgorithm,
     bothancillaryservicerevenueandROIshowasignificantupwardtrend, the model is solved using three benchmark optimization algorithms:
     indicating that the system’s economic benefits are effectively improved Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), Starfish Optimization Algorithm
     despite significant electricity price fluctuations. Specifically, as the (SFOA), and Sparrow Search Algorithm (SSA). The parameters are set
     peak-to-valley ratio increases from 1 to 7, ancillary service revenue in- with a population size of 60 and 500 iterations. Taking the revenue
     creases from approximately $22,100 to $66,300, while ROI increases allocationofPSasanexample,Fig.15comparestheconvergencecurves
                                          of different algorithms. The results obtained after conducting 30 simu-
                                          lationsforeachofthefouralgorithmsareshowninTable10.Tovalidate
     Table 7                                                                      
                                          the algorithm’s scalability, model optimization verification was con-
     Economic performance comparison across operational strategies.               
                                          ducted sequentially over 12-h, 24-h, and 48-h periods. The results are
      Economic/USD Strategy1 Strategy2 Strategy3 Strategy4                        
                                          presented in Table 11.                  
      PS       21882  26306 21882  26306    It can be seen in Fig. 15 and Table 10, the CTCM algorithm dem-
      BES      8456   6888   6888   8456  onstrates significant advantages across all performance metrics. Its
      Totalrevenue 30338 33194 28770 34762                                        
                                          convergence curve exhibits rapid and stable descent, far outperforming
                                         12


===== PAGE 13 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
     Table 8                                                                      
     Capacity allocation and revenue situation under Strategy 4.                  
      Type    Peakshaving            Frequencyregulation   Peak-valleyarbitrage   
              Capacity/MW Revenue/USD Capacity/MW Revenue/USD Capacity/MW Revenue/USD
      PS      835        5194        803        13342      946         7770       
      BES     198        1876        157        6580       /           /          
      Total   1033       7070        960        19922      946         7770       
                                                                                  
     Table 9                              Table 10                                
     Return on investment and payback period for different strategies. Comparison of results from four algorithms.
      Strategy Annualizedincome/104USD ROI/% Paybackperiod/years Algorithm Average Optimal Worst CV Average
                                                 value value  value    time/s     
      Strategy1 698.57    9.2  7.8                                                
      Strategy2 734.29    11.4 7.2         PSO   (cid:0) 122,125 (cid:0) 143,434 (cid:0) 111,450 0.85 4.7
      Strategy3 755.71    12.6 6.9         SFOA  (cid:0) 144,141 (cid:0) 147,221 (cid:0) 129,634 1.10 10.3
      Strategy4 810.86    15.3 6.1         SSA   (cid:0) 181,427 (cid:0) 190,245 (cid:0) 175,334 1.42 6.7
                                           CTCM  (cid:0) 187,928 (cid:0) 198,763 (cid:0) 179,445 0.21 5.8
                                          Table 11                                
                                          Scalability comparison of four algorithms.
                                           Algorithm 48×3(12h) 96×3(24h) 192×3(48h)
                                                 Time/s Fitness Time/s Fitness Time/s Fitness
                                           PSO   3.4 (cid:0) 87,510 4.7 (cid:0) 122,125 / /
                                           SFOA  7.2 (cid:0) 90,843 10.3 (cid:0) 144,141 13.8 (cid:0) 298,741
                                           SSA   4.9 (cid:0) 90,821 6.7 (cid:0) 181,427 9.5 (cid:0) 334,657
                                           CTCM  4.5 (cid:0) 92,517 5.8 (cid:0) 187,928 7.7 (cid:0) 387,620
                                          other algorithms. Regarding fitness values, CTCM ranks first in average
                                           (cid:0)    (cid:0)     (cid:0)         
                                          ( 187,928), optimal ( 198,763), and worst ( 179,445) values. Its
                                          averagecomputationtime(5.8s)rankssecondonlytoPSO.Moreover,it
                                          exhibits the lowest coefficient of variation(CV) at 0.21, indicating
                                          greater stability, reduced susceptibility to random factors, and superior
                                          robustness and reliability. As shown in Table 11, as problem scale in-
                                          creases, CTCM consistently maintains the optimal fitness value
                                           (cid:0)                                
                                          ( 387,620) while requiring less computational time than comparison
     Fig. 14. Sensitivity analysis results for peak-to-valley ratio in time-of-use algorithms, demonstrating its exceptional scalability, stability, and
     electricity pricing.                 efficiency.                             
                                            TheSOCcurvesoftheBESandPSduringthecontrolperiodisshown
                                          in Fig. 16.                             
                                            It can be seen in Fig. 16, from 0:00 to 5:00 and 14:00 to 18:45, PS is
                                          responsible for energy transfer and absorbs excess wind energy; from
                                          10:00 to 12:00 and 18:45 to 20:45, HESS synergistically suppresses
                                          system fluctuations. And the SOC of the BES remains strictly within the
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
              Fig. 15. Algorithm convergence curves.                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                     Fig. 16. The curves of the SOC.
                                         13


===== PAGE 14 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
     safeoperatingrangeof0.1–0.9throughoutthecontrolperiod,whilethe effectofthismethod,thisarticleselectedfourtypicalpowergridregions
     PS exhibit minimal SOC fluctuations around a baseline of 0.984 (within for analysis, including data from Northwest and Southwest China [52],
     the0.1–1.0safetymargin),withnooverchargeorover-dischargeevents the European Union [53], and North America [54]. Table 13 shows the
     observed for either technology.This demonstratesexcellent operational optimized dispatch results of different power grid regions.
     stability and safety for both storage systems under complex multi- ItcanbeenseeninTable13,theproposedmethodeffectivelyreduces
     scenario coupled conditions. Notably, the BES maintains an initial systemoutputfluctuationswhenoptimizedinallfourregions,achieving
     SOC near 0.5 at the start of each control cycle, whereas the PS sustain a thehighestperformanceinSouthwestChina,withamagnitudeof15.47
     high SOC baseline of 0.948, reflecting divergent SOC regulation strate- %, and the lowest performance in North America, with a magnitude of
     gies that provide optimal initial energy reserve conditions for subse- 10.68 %. This research method demonstrates significant cross-regional
     quent operational cycles.            applicability, effectively smoothing system output fluctuations and
                                          improving renewable energy consumption in power grids in China, the
                                          West, and other regions. A hybrid energy storage solution combining
     4.6. Multi-scenario robustness verification and performance evaluation batteries and pumped storage can completely eliminate wind and solar
                                          curtailment and significantly enhance grid stability. Furthermore, this
       Tofurtherevaluatetherobustnessofthemulti-energyhybridsystem strategycangeneratesubstantialeconomicbenefitsacrossallregionsby
     in practical applications, the paper introduced four extreme scenario participating in ancillary services such as frequency regulation and
     analyses. These scenarios simulate the system’s responsiveness and peak-valley arbitrage. Multi-regional validation results demonstrate the
     adaptability to external shocks.     method’s excellent scalability and adaptability, enabling it to flexibly
                                          adapt to diverse grid structures and resource conditions, demonstrating
     Case A. Considering an extreme weather scenario, a typhoon or                
                                          its broad potential for widespread adoption.
     sandstorm causes a 50 % drop in wind and solar output to test the sys-       
     tem’s stability under severe fluctuations in renewable energy.               
                                          5. Conclusion and future work           
     Case B. Simulating a combination of dry years and abundant solar             
     years,thepaperexploredthesynergisticeffectsofhydropowerandwind 5.1. Conclusion
     and solar complementarity and the adaptability of the multi-source           
     energy scheduling strategy.            The WPHHS has great application prospects in dealing with wind
                                          and photovoltaic fluctuations and alleviating the problem of wind and
     Case C. Considering the uncertainty of the electricity market, the           
                                          photovoltaic power abandonment. In order to further explore its oper-
     paper introduced a market volatility scenario in which the peak-to-          
     valley price difference was tripled to evaluate the system’s economic ation mode, this study established a multi-energy complementary sys-
                                          tem architecture based on "BES -PS dual-core drive", which realizes
     feasibility and scheduling strategy under severe price fluctuations.         
                                          energy space-time transportation through PS and completes power
     CaseD. Tosimulatetheimpactofequipmentfailureonthesystem,the instantaneous buffering through BES, forming a "double insurance"
     paper studied an equipment failure scenario, assuming a temporary 40 mechanism for smoothing system output fluctuations, and effectively
     % reduction in BES capacity, to analyze the system’s emergency improvingtheproblemofenergystorageidleness.Themainconclusions
     response and capacity allocation capabilities in the event of an equip- of the paper are as follows:
     ment failure.                                                                
                                          1) LHS-generated renewable scenarios combined with L-ISODATA
     Case E. Baseline scenario.                                                   
                                            clustering effectively mitigate the impact of wind/PV generation
       The specific impacts of these extreme scenarios on system perfor- uncertainty on control outcomes.
     mance are shown in Table 12.         2) The proposed system reduces output volatility by 12.46 % and 1.78
       It can been seen in Table 12, the proposed model maintains optimal % compared to conventional WPHS and WPHPS systems, respec-
     convergence under extreme scenarios. However, the system fluctuation tively, achieving zero curtailment rates. Under varying hydrological
     suppression rate drops to 8.2 % in the typhoon scenario due to the conditions (wet, normal, and dry seasons), the system maintains
     sudden drop in wind and solar output, which prevents the PS from fully optimal fluctuation mitigation, with volatility decreasing progres-
     storing energy. Profits increase to $41,586 under the electricity price sively (most notably in dry seasons), demonstrating robust adapt-
     fluctuation scenario, demonstrating the model’s dynamic response to ability to complex scenarios.
     market signals. Although the fluctuation suppression rate decreases in 3) The capacity allocation model provides 1,033 MW of peak shaving
     theBESfailurescenario,theCTCMreallocationofPScapacitymaintains capacity,960MWoffrequencyregulationcapacity,and946MWfor
     profits above 85 % of the baseline level, highlighting the strategy’s peak-valley arbitrage, reducing idle capacity while generating
     resilience. Overall, the system demonstrates strong robustness and 34,762 USD in additional revenue.
     maintains high stability under various extreme scenarios. 4) From a cost-benefit perspective, WPHHS achieves a ROI of 15.3 %
       In order to comprehensively evaluate the feasibility and application withapaybackperiodof6.1years.Moreover,thehigherthepeak-to-
                                            valley ratio, the greater the system’s ROI. Under extreme operating
     Table 12                                                                     
     System performance changes under different extreme scenarios.                
                                          Table 13                                
      Case Systematicvolatility Powercurtailment Changesin                        
                                          Optimization results in different regions.
          changes/%  rate/%    earnings/USD                                       
                                           Region Systematicvolatility Powercurtailment Changesin
      Case (cid:0) 8.2 4.3     +28,115                                            
                                                  changes/% rate/%   earnings/USD 
       A                                                                          
      Case (cid:0) 10.1 1.8    +31,240     Northwest (cid:0) 12.46 0 +34,762      
       B                                    China                                 
      Case (cid:0) 13.9 0      +41,586     Southwest (cid:0) 15.47 0 +33,025      
       C                                    China                                 
      Case (cid:0) 9.7 2.5     +29,874     European (cid:0) 11.30 0  +33,500      
       D                                    Union                                 
      Case (cid:0) 12.46 0     +34,762     North  (cid:0) 10.68 0    +34,587      
       E                                    America                               
                                         14


===== PAGE 15 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
       conditions, simulation results for four typical extreme scenarios [2] LeiK,ChangJ,WangX.Peakshavingandshort-termeconomicoperationofhydro-
                                             wind-PVhybridsystemconsideringtheuncertaintyofwindandPVpower.Renew
       demonstrate that the proposed model maintains high stability and           
                                             Energy 2023;215:118903. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2023.118903.
       robustness, exhibiting strong interference resistance. Furthermore,        
                                           [3] Zhu F, Zhong P, Xu B, Liu W, Wang W, Sun Y, et al. Short-term stochastic
       compatibility tests across three distinct regional grid types reveal optimization of a hydro-wind-photovoltaic hybrid system under multiple
                                             uncertainties.EnergyConversManag2020;214:112902.https://doi.org/10.1016/
       that the model effectively adapts to varying grid topologies and           
                                             j.enconman.2020.112902.              
       operational environments, showcasing exceptional adaptability and          
                                           [4] Short-termschedulingstrategiesforhydro-wind-solar-storageconsideringvariable-
       scalability.                          speed unit of pumped storage. Appl Energy 2025;377:124336. https://doi.org/
                                             10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.124336.      
                                           [5] ADALINE (ADAptive Linear NEuron)-based coordinated control for wind power
       In summary, the proposed model enhances system stability, renew-           
                                             fluctuations smoothing with reduced BESS (battery energy storage system)
     able utilization, and economic performance through synergistic coor- capacity. Energy 2016;101:1–8. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2016.01.100.
     dination of multi-energy resources, providing a reliable and flexible [6] Ariyaratna PM, Muttaqi KM, Sutanto D. The simultaneous mitigation of slow and
                                             fast voltage fluctuations caused by rooftop solar PV by controlling the charging/
     solution for power systems with high renewable penetration.                  
                                             dischargingofanintegratedbatteryenergystoragesystem.JEnergyStorage2019;
                                             26:100971. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2019.100971.
                                           [7] Hedayatnia A, Ghafourian J, Sepehrzad R, Al-Durrad A, Anvari-Moghaddam A.
     5.2. Future work                        Two-stage data-driven optimal energy management and dynamic real-time
                                             operation in networked microgrid based on a deep reinforcement learning
                                             approach. Int J Electr Power Energy Syst 2024;160:110142. https://doi.org/
       While effective in practical examples, this method still requires          
                                             10.1016/j.ijepes.2024.110142.        
     refinementintermsofrobustness,errorsensitivity,andphysicalfidelity. [8] Two-Stage experimental intelligent dynamic energy management of microgrid in
     Multi-daystresstesting(95th/99thpercentiles)androllingoptimization smart cities based on demand response programs and energy storage system
                                             participation. Int J Electr Power Energy Syst 2024;155:109613. https://doi.org/
     will be conducted to address distribution shifts and extreme weather         
                                             10.1016/j.ijepes.2023.109613.        
     conditions. Opportunity constraints, distributed robustness, and CVaR [9] Short-term and probability scenario-oriented energy management of integrated
     will be used to quantify the impact of wind and solar forecast errors on energy distribution systems with considering energy market interactions and end-
                                             user participation. Energy 2025;322:135691. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
     power balance and SOC safety. Frequency regulation mileage fees,             
                                             energy.2025.135691.                  
                                     +                                            
     performance coefficients, energy bias costs, and "energy budget SOC [10] Sepehrzad R, Faraji MJ, Al-Durra A, Sadabadi MS. Enhancing cyber-resilience in
     rebate" will be added to the model to enhance the credibility of the electric vehicle charging stations: a multi-agent deep reinforcement learning
                                             approach. IEEE Trans Intell Transport Syst 2024;25:18049–62. https://doi.org/
     results.                                                                     
                                             10.1109/TITS.2024.3408238.           
       For project implementation, market participation rules (capacity           
                                          [11] Demand response-based multi-layer peer-to-peer energy trading strategy for
     certification, minimum duration, response time, energy neutrality, and renewable-powered microgrids with electric vehicles. Energy 2025;320:135206.
                                             https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2025.135206.
     participation caps), grid connection specifications (ride-through capa-      
                                          [12] Sepehrzad R, Khodadadi A, Adinehpour S, Karimi M. A multi-agent deep
     bility, primary/fast frequency response, reactive power/power factor,        
                                             reinforcement learning paradigm to improve the robustness and resilience of grid
     and telemetry timeliness), and metering and settlement will be trans- connectedelectricvehiclechargingstationsagainstthedestructiveeffectsofcyber-
                                             attacks. Energy 2024;307:132669. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
     formed into explicit constraints and cost items, incorporating licensing     
                                             energy.2024.132669.                  
     and safety compliance costs. Further consideration will be given to the      
                                          [13] JinX,LiuB,DengZ,ZhaoZ,ZhangY,CaoR,etal.Derivingstrategicregion-wise
     inherent feedback of large-scale energy storage participation on price hydro-wind-solarportfolios.RenewSustainEnergyRev2025;210:115145.https://
     formation, and scaled up using cross-regional, multi-year data and doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2024.115145.
                                          [14] ZhaoH,LiaoS,LiuB,FangZ,WangH,ChengC,etal.Multiagentoptimizationfor
     decomposition algorithms to develop a deployable solution that bal-          
                                             short-term generation scheduling in hydropower-dominated hydro-wind-solar
     ances technical, economic, and regulatory considerations. supply systems with spatiotemporal coupling constraints. Appl Energy 2025;382:
                                             125324. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2025.125324.
                                          [15] JinX,ChengC,CaiS,YanL,ZhaoZ.Usingstochasticdualdynamicprogramming
     CRediT authorship contribution statement                                     
                                             to design long-term operation policy of hydro-wind-solar energy systems
                                             consideringmultiplecoupleduncertaintiesandend-of-yearcarryoverstorage.Appl
       Xiaojuan Han: Writing – review & editing, Resources, Project Energy 2025;393:126072. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2025.126072.
                                                          ˜                       
                                          [16] Tapia Carpio LG, Cardoso Guimaraes FA. Regional diversification of hydro, wind,
     administration, Funding acquisition, Data curation. Xiaoyan Yang:            
                                             and solar generation potential: a mean-variance model to stabilize power
     Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Soft- fluctuations in the Brazilian integrated electrical energy transmission and
     ware, Methodology, Formal analysis. Tianyang Bai: Formal analysis, distribution system. Renew Energy 2024;235:121266. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
                                             renene.2024.121266.                  
     Data curation, Conceptualization.                                            
                                          [17] LiuB,LiuT,LiaoS,LuJ,ChengC.Short-termcoordinatedhybridhydro-wind-solar
                                             optimal scheduling model considering multistage section restrictions. Renew
                                             Energy 2023;217:119160. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2023.119160.
     Declaration of competing interest    [18] Lin M, Shen J, Cheng C, Lü Q, Wang Y. Long-term multi-objective optimal
                                             scheduling for large cascaded hydro-wind-photovoltaic complementary systems
                                             considering short-term peak-shaving demands. Energy Convers Manag 2024;301:
       The authors declare that they have no known competing financial            
                                             118063. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2024.118063.
     interestsorpersonalrelationshipsthatcouldhaveappearedtoinfluence [19] Zhou S, Han Y, Zalhaf AS, Chen S, Zhou T, Yang P, et al. A novel multi-objective
                                             scheduling model for grid-connected hydro-wind-PV-battery complementary
     the work reported in this paper.                                             
                                             system under extreme weather: a case study of Sichuan, China. Renew Energy
                                             2023;212:818–33. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2023.05.092.
     Acknowledgements                     [20] Li Y, Su Y, Zhang Y, Wu W, Xia L. Two-layered optimal scheduling under a semi-
                                             model architecture of hydro-wind-solar multi-energy systems with hydrogen
                                             storage. Energy 2024;313:134115. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
       This paper is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation         
                                             energy.2024.134115.                  
     of China (52277216).                 [21] Sui Y, Lin H, Ding Z, Li F, Sui Z, Wu W. Compact, efficient, and affordable
                                             absorption Carnot battery for long-term renewable energy storage. Appl Energy
                                             2024;357:122504. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2023.122504.
     Data availability                                                            
                                          [22] WangH,LiaoS,ChengC,LiuB,FangZ,WuH.Short-termschedulingstrategiesfor
                                             hydro-wind-solar-storageconsideringvariable-speedunitofpumpedstorage.Appl
                                             Energy 2025;377:124336. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.124336.
       The data that has been used is confidential.                               
                                          [23] Li Z, Yang P, Guo Y, Lu G. Medium-term multi-stage distributionally robust
                                             scheduling of hydro–wind–solar complementary systems in electricity markets
     References                              considering multiple time-scale uncertainties. Appl Energy 2023;347:121371.
                                             https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2023.121371.
                                          [24] Zhang Q, Wang X, Yang T, Liang J. Research on scheduling optimisation for an
      [1] LuP,ZhangN,YeL,DuE,KangC.Advancesinmodelpredictivecontrolforlarge-      
                                             integrated system of wind-photovoltaic-hydro-pumped storage. J Eng 2017;2017:
       scalewindpowerintegrationinpowersystems.AdvApplEnergy2024;14:100177.       
                                             1210–4. https://doi.org/10.1049/joe.2017.0521.
       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adapen.2024.100177.                              
                                         15


===== PAGE 16 / 16 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
     X. Han et al.                                                 Energy336(2025)138476
     [25] BorettiA,CastellettoS.Hydrogenenergy storagerequirementsforsolarandwind adaptivethresholdcontrolforsmartgridloadprofiling.ElecPowerSystRes2025;
       energy production to account for long-term variability. Renew Energy 2024;221: 247:111774. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2025.111774.
       119797. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2023.119797. [40] Shields MD, Zhang J.The generalization ofLatin hypercubesampling. Reliab Eng
     [26] Geng C, Zhang T, Sun W. Hybrid solar, wind, and geothermal power generation Syst Saf 2016;148:96–108. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2015.12.002.
       combined with energy storage for sustainable energy management in remote [41] Wang J, Shen Y, Wang X, Xu J. An energy storage planning method based on the
       buildings. J Energy Storage 2025;123:116655. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. Vinecopulamodelwithhighpercentageofnewenergyconsumption.EnergyEngJ
       est.2025.116655.                      Assoc Energy Eng 2025;122:2751–66. https://doi.org/10.32604/ee.2025.064317.
     [27] Jing Z, Wang Y, Chang J, Wang X, Guo A, Meng X. Hydro-wind-PV-storage [42] Wang Y, Pei A, Lei M, Ji Y, Wang Z, Zong J. Adaptive state-of-charge limit based
       complementary operation based on a multivariate 3D power generation database optimal configuration method of battery energy storage system for offshore
       consideringcomprehensiveutilizationtasksofcascadehydropowerstationsinthe isolated power grids considering wind uncertainty and frequency stability.
       river basin. Energy 2025;322:135672. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. J Energy Storage 2025;119:116344. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2025.116344.
       energy.2025.135672.                [43] Yang D, He Z, Sun Y, Li B, Li D, Liu X, et al. Optimised operation of integrated
     [28] CaoZ,WangC,PengB,WangY,DuP,GuoY,etal.Optimizationofenergystorage community energy system considering integrated energy pricing strategy: a two-
       capacity tosmooth windpower fluctuation.IOP ConfSer Earth EnvironSci2021; layer Stackelberg game approach. J Energy Storage 2024;87:111383. https://doi.
       687:012103. https://doi.org/10.1088/1755-1315/687/1/012103. org/10.1016/j.est.2024.111383.
     [29] DicoratoM,ForteG,PisaniM,TrovatoM.Planningandoperatingcombinedwind- [44] Multivariate probabilistic forecasting and its performance’s impacts on long-term
       storage System in electricity market. IEEE Trans Sustain Energy 2012;3:209–17. dispatch of hydro-wind hybrid systems. Appl Energy 2021;283:116243. https://
       https://doi.org/10.1109/TSTE.2011.2179953. doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.116243.
                                              ´   ´                               
     [30] Han X, Lv F, Li J, Zeng F. Flexible interactive control method for multi-scenario [45] GuisandezI,Perez-DíazJI.Mixedintegerlinearprogrammingformulationsforthe
       sharing of hybrid pumped storage-wind-photovoltaic power generation. J Energy hydro production function in a unit-based short-term scheduling problem. Int J
       Storage 2024;100:113590. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.113590. Electr Power Energy Syst 2021;128:106747. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
     [31] HanX,LiJ,ZhangZ.Dynamicgameoptimizationcontrolforsharedenergystorage ijepes.2020.106747.
       inmultipleapplicationscenariosconsideringenergystorageeconomy.ApplEnergy [46] Optimization model for long-distance integrated transmission of wind farms and
       2023;350:121801. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2023.121801. pumped-storage hydropower plants. Appl Energy 2019;242:285–93. https://doi.
     [32] LuoX,WangJ,DoonerM,ClarkeJ.Overviewofcurrentdevelopmentinelectrical org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.03.080.
       energy storage technologies and the application potential in power system [47] Chen Z, Li S, Khan AT, Mirjalili S. Competition of tribes and cooperation of
       operation. Appl Energy 2015;137:511–36. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. members algorithm: an evolutionary computation approach for model free
       apenergy.2014.09.081.                 optimization. Expert Syst Appl 2025;265:125908. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
     [33] Jamal R, Zhang J, Men B, Khan NH, Ebeed M, Kamel S. Solution to the eswa.2024.125908.
       deterministic and stochastic Optimal Reactive Power Dispatch by integration of [48] DengZ,WangG,WangZ,JinW.Modellingerosionandstabilitydegradationofa
       solar, wind-hydro powers using Modified Artificial Hummingbird Algorithm. reservoirslopeunderperiodicwaterlevelfluctuations.ComputGeotech2024;166:
       Energy Rep 2023;9:4157–73. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2023.03.036. 106021. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compgeo.2023.106021.
     [34] Modu B, Abdullah MP, Bukar AL, Hamza MF, Adewolu MS. Operational strategy [49] GuoQ, LiJ,LiQ,SunY,LiF, YanL,etal.Performanceanalysisand applicability
       and capacity optimization of standalone solar-wind-biomass-fuel cell energy evaluation of electrochemical energy storage under the high percentage of
       system using hybrid LF-SSA algorithms. Int J Hydrogen Energy 2024;50:92–106. renewable energy penetration. Energy Rep 2025;14:978–88. https://doi.org/
       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.07.215. 10.1016/j.egyr.2025.07.007.
     [35] Wang Z, Sun T, Liu N. Risk-managed economic dispatch in hybrid hydrothermal- [50] Cost-sharing mechanisms for pumped storage plants at different market stages in
       wind-solar systems: a novel multi-objective optimization approach. Int J Electr China. Renew Energy 2023;217:119183. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
       Power Energy Syst 2025;169:110753. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. renene.2023.119183.
       ijepes.2025.110753.                [51] Coordinated operation of conventional hydropower plants as hybrid pumped
     [36] Wang Y, Xiong G, Xu S, Suganthan PN. Dynamic economic dispatch of multi-area storage hydropower with wind and photovoltaic plants. Energy Convers Manag
       wind-solar-thermal power systems with fractional order comprehensive learning 2023;277:116654. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2022.116654.
       differential evolution. Energy 2025;326:136233. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. [52] Medium-term multi-stage distributionally robust scheduling of hydro–wind–solar
       energy.2025.136233.                   complementary systems in electricity markets considering multiple time-scale
     [37] Han X, Wang Z, Li H, Liu M. Cooperative game robust optimization control for uncertainties. Appl Energy 2023;347:121371. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
       wind-solar-sharedenergystorageintegratedsystembasedondual-settlementmode apenergy.2023.121371.
       and multiple uncertainties. Appl Energy 2025;378:124799. https://doi.org/ [53] JohlasH,WitherbyS,DoyleJR.Storagerequirementsforhighgridpenetrationof
       10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.124799.       windandsolar powerfortheMISOregionofNorthAmerica:acasestudy.Renew
     [38] XueC,BaiX.Probabilisticcarbonemissionflowcalculationofpowersystemwith Energy 2020;146:1315–24. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2019.07.043.
       LatinHypercubeSampling.EnergyRep2025;14:751–65.https://doi.org/10.1016/ [54] The complementary role of energy system and power grid models: an analysis of
       j.egyr.2025.06.040.                   the European energy transformation from a holistic perspective. Energy Convers
     [39] Tian X, Yuan B, Zheng P. Tri-objective enhanced ISODATA: a synergistic Manag 2024;315:118761. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2024.118761.
       framework of cluster core optimization, inter-class divergence maximization, and
                                         16
