SOURCE PDF: Grid_Forming_and_Grid_Following_Control_for_Frequency_and_Voltage_Stabilization_of_Hybrid_Renewable_Energy_Systems_in_Microgrid.pdf
TOTAL PAGES: 6


===== PAGE 1 / 6 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
           Grid  Forming      and  Grid   Following      Control    for           
                                                                                  
          Frequency      and   Voltage   Stabilization     of  Hybrid             
                                                                                  
              Renewable      Energy     Systems    in  Microgrid                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Mahmoud F. Elmorshedy1,2, Abdelrahman Farghly3, Seshagirirao Vemparala1, Mahajan Sagar Bhaskar1, Dhafer Almakhles1
                 1Renewable Energy Lab., College of Engineering, Prince Sultan University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
           2Electrical Power and Machines Engineering Department, Faculty of Engineering, Tanta University, Tanta 31733, Egypt
          3Electrical Power and Machines Engineering Department, Faculty of Engineering, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt
       melmorshedy@psu.edu.sa, Abdelrahman.farghly@alexu.edu.eg, svemparala@psu.edu.sa, smahajan@psu.edu.sa, dalmakhles@psu.edu.sa
        Abstract—This study presents a grid-forming (GFM) within only microseconds. This swift reaction is crucial for
      inverter designed for a battery energy storage system (BESS) to preserving system stability, guaranteeing effective power
      maintain voltage and frequency stability within an AC distribution, and averting disruptions inside the microgrid.
      microgrid. The proposed GFM inverter plays a critical role in Further, efficient control systems for these power electronics
      autonomously regulating voltage and frequency when the utility converters have to include system restrictions, including
      grid experiences failures or disruptions. Unlike grid-following             
                                          voltage and current limits as well as safety margins, to
      (GFL) inverters, which rely on an external grid reference, the              
                                          guarantee safe and reliable operation. Neglecting these limits
      GFM inverter takes control during grid outages, forming a                   
                                          may result in operational problems, including possible
      stable local grid by dynamically adjusting its output. This                 
                                          damage to the converters and other microgrid components,
      ensures uninterrupted microgrid operation, enabling seamless                
                                          hence reducing the system's reliability and durability.
      transition between grid-connected and islanded modes. The                   
                                            Hence, GFL control is a widely adopted approach for
      battery storage system, managed through the GFM inverter,                   
                                          integrating inverter-based renewable energy sources, such as
      supports frequency stabilization by balancing power                         
                                          PVS and WGS, into the power grid. This approach simplifies
      fluctuations, thereby enhancing microgrid reliability and                   
                                          inverter design and enables effective power transfer to the grid
      resilience. The AC microgrid network consists of a wind-                    
                                          by using the grid voltage and frequency as a reference for
      generating system (WGS), photovoltaic system (PVS), BESS,                   
                                          operation. GFL inverters provide active and reactive power by
      three-phase utility grid, AC loads, AC/DC converters, and                   
      DC/DC converters. Maximizing power extraction synchronizing with the grid's phase angle through the use of
      methodologies augment energy production from both WGS and phase-locked loop (PLL) technology. Although this control
      PVS. A GFL inverter employing active and reactive power method works well in synchronous generator-dominated
      regulation is executed with a Phase Lock Loop (PLL) and vector stable grids, it has trouble maintaining stability and resilience
      control methodology to achieve synchronization with the utility in weak or low-inertia systems [7]. In addition, in modern
      grid. The GFM inverter utilizes droop control to maintain grids with high renewable energy penetration, their
      steady voltage and frequency for effective grid integration. The dependency on a stable grid limits their ability to operate
      system is validated using simulations under different scenarios,            
                                          during disturbances or in standalone applications, such as
      including the sudden implementation of WGS and grid failures.               
                                          microgrids. Moreover, they do not contribute to grid stability
      The rapid frequency response illustrates the efficacy of the                
                                          through inertia or frequency regulation, making them less
      proposed control approach. Simulation results provide a swift               
                                          suitable for grids with reduced synchronous generation [8].
      frequency response and maintain grid stability, validating its              
                                          Despite these limitations, GFL control remains a cost-
      appropriateness for AC microgrids.                                          
                                          effective and straightforward solution for renewable energy
                                          integration in traditional power systems.
        Keywords—Grid forming; Grid following; GFM; GFL;                          
                                            Consequently, grid-forming (GFM) control, which can
      renewable energy resources; droop control; grid-connected.                  
                                          stabilize and smoothly incorporate RESs into electrical grids,
                  I. INTRODUCTION         has been developed to address the shortcomings of the GFL
                                          [9]. The GFM inverters function as a virtual synchronous
        Renewable energy systems (RESs), including solar                          
                                          generator by establishing voltage and frequency. Because of
      photovoltaic (PV) and wind generating systems (WGS), are                    
                                          this ability, GFM control is crucial for preserving grid
      progressively included in microgrids to improve energy                      
                                          stability, particularly in systems where synchronous
      sustainability and reliability [1][2][3]. These systems                     
                                          generators' traditional function is reduced due to a large
      generally depend on power electronics converters to regulate                
                                          penetration of renewable energy sources like wind and
      the conversion and distribution of electrical energy inside the             
                                          photovoltaics [10]. To guarantee steady operation under a
      microgrid, as elaborated in [4]-[6]. The use of these converters            
                                          range of grid situations, the main goal of GFM control is to
      presents considerable issues in control and administration                  
                                          emulate the dynamic behavior of traditional generators,
      owing to the intrinsically variable characteristics of renewable            
                                          including inertia and droop characteristics. GFM inverters can
      energy sources and the swift swings in load power demands                   
                                          operate in both grid-connected and islanded modes, making
      within the microgrid. A principal problem is the necessity for              
                                          them highly versatile for applications in microgrids, hybrid
      control methods that can react promptly and precisely to these              
                                          energy systems, and weak grid environments. As the transition
      variations. The utility grid and load demand can fluctuate                  
                                          toward renewable energy accelerates, GFM control is
      rapidly, often within milliseconds, necessitating that the                  
                                          increasingly being recognized as a cornerstone technology for
      control systems for these converters be highly dynamic and                  
                                          enabling the transformation of traditional grids into
      capable of functioning at fast sampling rates, sometimes                    
  17272011.5202.41336GNEREWOP-EPC/9011.01                                         
  :IOD                                                                            
  |                                                                               
  EEEI                                                                            
  5202©                                                                           
  00.13$/52/1-7151-5133-8-979                                                     
  |                                                                               
  )GNEREWOP-EPC(                                                                  
  gnireenignE                                                                     
  rewoP                                                                           
  dna                                                                             
  scinortcelE                                                                     
  rewoP                                                                           
  ,ytilibitapmoC                                                                  
  no                                                                              
  ecnerefnoC                                                                      
  lanoitanretnI                                                                   
  ht91                                                                            
  EEEI                                                                            
  5202                                                                            
         Authorized licensed use limited to: Zhejiang University. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 06:26:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 2 / 6 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
      decentralized, flexible, and sustainable energy systems.                    
      Although GFM control has many benefits for integrating                      
      RESs and stabilizing contemporary power networks, it also                   
      has drawbacks and difficulties because it depends on ESS to                 
      supply the power required to regulate frequency and voltage.                
      This reliance may raise system expenses and create new                      
      battery management difficulties. Furthermore, grid-forming                  
      inverter control methods are more intricate and                             
      computationally intensive.                                                  
        Therefore, this paper presents a coordinated control                      
      approach between GFL and grid-forming inverters for a                       
      hybrid photovoltaic/wind generation, BESS in a microgrid to                 
      attract the advantages of the two methods. The proposed                     
      integration aims to continue supplying power to the main load               
      even though the utility grid is disconnected. In addition, Fig. 1. Suggested microgrid system with GFM and GFL control.
      maintaining the system stable under different conditions.                   
                                          C. Battery energy storage system (BESS) 
                                            The battery model employs a regulated voltage source
            II. PROPOSED SYSTEM WITH MODELING                                     
                                          alongside a fixed resistance, as illustrated in (5) and (6) [15].
        The microgrid system used in this investigation is shown                  
                                                      t     t               
      in Fig. 1. A WGS, PVS, BESS, three-phase utility grid, AC E = E −PC C −idt+Aexp−Bi dt (5)
                                              0  v BSS BSS      BSS             
      loads, AC/DC converters, and DC/DC converters make up the             
                                                        0        0                
      microgrid system. Every part is outfitted with a unique control             
                                           V  = E −R .I                  (6)      
      unit designed to govern how it operates. Among the tasks BSS i BSS          
                                          where E denotes the no-load voltage, (cid:1) signifies the battery's
      assigned to these control units are maximizing power     (cid:2)            
                                          constant voltage, P represents the polarization voltage, C
      generation, maintaining system stability, and adjusting to v        BSS     
                                          indicates the battery capacity, ∫ (cid:4) dt reflects the actual
      changes in load demands, grid outages, or environmental (cid:5)(cid:6)(cid:6)
                                          battery charge. Meanwhile, the battery capacity is calculated
      circumstances. In the following sections, the mathematical                  
                                          using (7) [16].                         
      model of each component will be discussed.                                  
      A. PV mathematical model.                                                   
                                           C                                      
                                            BSS                                   
                                              = E                                 
                                                d/hr                              
                                                   (V                             
                                                    BSS                           
                                                      × DoD)              (7)     
                                          where (cid:1) represents the energy supplied to the load over
        One important RES in the suggested microgrid system is (cid:7)/(cid:9)(cid:10)
      the photovoltaic array. The two main elements that affect the one hour. DoD denotes the battery's depth of discharge.
      PV output power and efficiency are solar radiation and                      
                                         III. CONTROL METHODOLOGY FOR THE SYSTEM COMPONENTS
      operating temperature [11], [12] as described in                            
       P = f P ( 1+β(T −T ) ) ×(G G ) (1) A. Maximum power control for PVS        
        PV PV PVn r PV PV,STC T T,STC                                             
                                            The maximum power point tracking (MPPT) is used to
      where T denotes the actual temperature of the photovoltaic                  
           PV                                                                     
      cell, while T represents the temperature of the PV cell boost the overall PVS efficiency. The PVS employs the
             PV-STC                                                               
      under standard test conditions. In addition, P represents the incremental conductance (IC) approach to extract the
                               PVn                                                
      nominal power, while γ signifies the intensity coefficient for maximum power. The IC method's guiding concepts are
      solar cell efficiency.              explained in [17] and shown in Fig. 2. The mathematical
                                          representations are described by the following relations.
      B. WG mathematical model.                                                   
        In the adopted WGS, the permanent magnet synchronous dP dV =d(I V ) dV =I +V (dI dV )=0 (8)
                                            PV PV  PV PV PV PV PV PV PV           
      generator (PMSG) is used because of its efficiency and                      
                                           (dI dV )=−(I V )              (9)      
      reliability in wind energy applications [13]. A controlled PV PV PV PV      
      rectifier is utilized to maximize the electrical output from the ≥          
      wind turbine (WT). This rectifier converts the alternating                  
                                               Triangle                           
      current generated by the PMSG into direct current (DC) wave C               
      power. The WT output power is affected by numerous critical -               
      parameters such as wind velocity, turbine blade radius, PMSG i pv v pv      
      efficiency, and rectifier performance. The correlation between +            
      these variables and the power output is formally articulated in             
                                                          +                       
      the following equations [14].                                               
       P = 0.5ρC AV 3η η              (2)                                         
        WT    p ω WT G                                                            
                    21                                                            
             116                                                                  
       C =0.5176( −5−0.4β)eλ i +0.0068λ (3)                                       
        p    λ                                                                    
              i                                                                   
         ωR       1   0.035                                                       
       λ= r , λ−1 =  −               (4)                                          
         V    i 0.08β+λ β3+1                                                      
          ω                                                                       
      where λ, R, and V are the tip speed ratio, blade radius, and                
                ω                                                                 
      wind speed.                                                                 
                                                     sub-cd                       
                                                           Boost Converter        
                                                     +  D    L       +            
                                                           Q                      
                                                       C                          
                                                                     -            
                                                                /                 
                                                      PI                          
                                                               d/dt               
                                                   Limiter                        
                                                           /                      
                                                               d/dt               
                                          Fig. 2. MPPT of the PV system.          
                                          B. Maximum power control for WGS        
                                            To maximize the power generated from the WGS, the
                                          MPPT technique is used. In this system, a controlled rectifier
                                          is used instead of a switch-mode rectifier hence, dq-axis
                                          currents are utilized to achieve this goal. The maximum power
                                          is obtained for the analyzed wind turbine characteristics at a
                                          tip-speed ratio of 8.1, which corresponds to a wind power
                                          coefficient of 0.48 [18]. Hence, the maximum power
                                          extraction is accomplished with the reference current value on
         Authorized licensed use limited to: Zhejiang University. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 06:26:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 3 / 6 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
      the q-axis and to minimize losses, the d-axis current is rest to            
      zero [19]. Using the ideal wind power, P the reference q-                   
                             opt.                                                 
      axis reference current, i * is provided by                                  
                   qs                                                             
       P  = 0.5×C  ×ρ× A×V 3         (10)                                         
        opt.    p−otp.   w                                                        
       i* = ( 4P ) (3pωλ )                                                        
                                     (11)                                         
        qs   opt.   m                                                             
        Two Proportional-Integral (PI) controllers are employed                   
      to verify that the actual values accurately follow their                    
      reference points. Moreover, the compensation is utilized to                 
      achieve a total decoupling. Figure 3 illustrates the adopted                
      MPPT control for the WGS.                                                   
      C. Grid-following inverter control                                          
        As previously discussed, the GFL approach streamlines                     
      inverter design while enabling efficient power transfer to the              
      grid by leveraging the grid's voltage and frequency as                      
                                          Fig. 3. MPPT control for the WGS.       
      operational references. By synchronizing with the grid's phase              
      angle through the PLL technology, the GFL approach                          
      effectively facilitates the delivery of both active and reactive            
      power. Hence, the control is composed of three key                          
      components: PLL control, DC-bus voltage regulation, and                     
      grid current control. Each of these components plays a vital                
      role in ensuring consistent, reliable, and grid-compliant                   
      operation. The detailed functionality and design of these                   
      controllers will be explored in the following subsections.                  
        • Phase-locked loop                                                       
        The primary goal of the PLL is to extract the grid voltage                
      angle to properly align the d-axis voltage with the voltage                 
      vector in the voltage-oriented control (VOC) [20]. Also, the                
      grid voltage on the q-axis is set to zero by the VOC principles.            
      Because the PLL function maintains the grid voltage's d-axis                
                                          Fig. 4. Grid following inverter controller with the DC-link voltage control.
      with the voltage vector, the q-axis voltage is calculated by                
       v  = vˆ sin                                                                
                (                                                                 
                ωt o -ωt                                                          
                     )                                                            
                                     (12)                                         
        qg  ph1                            v = v + R i + L pi + R i + L pi −ωLi (16)
                                            di dg  i di i di g dg g dg qi         
      where ω and ω stand for the voltage vector and the d-axis's                 
           to  t                                                                  
                                           v = v + R i + L pi + R i + L pi +ωLi (17)
      respective angles.                    qi qg  i qi i qi g qg g qg di         
        • DC-bus voltage control          where R, R , L, and L are the filter resistances and
                                               i  g i    g                        
                                          inductances, and ω represents the grid angular frequency.
        By regulating the grid d-axis current, the DC-bus voltage is              
                                            Equations (16) and (17) can be updated as in (18) and (19),
      controlled. The input-output power equilibrium is used to                   
                                          and hence, two PI controllers can be used to generate the
      illustrate this, presuming the system is lossless, as given by              
                                          inverter's dq-axis output voltages.     
       3             dv                                                           
        (       )                                                                 
         v                                                                        
         qg                                                                       
          i                                                                       
           qg                                                                     
            +v                                                                    
              dg                                                                  
               i                                                                  
               dg                                                                 
                 =C.v                                                             
                    dc                                                            
                     . dc            (13)  v*                                     
                                             = ∆v + v −ωLi               (18)     
       2              dt                    di  di dg  qi                         
        Using the VOC concept, Eq. (13) is updated as follows v*                  
                                             = ∆v + v +ωLi               (19)     
                                            qi  qi qg  di                         
       3       dv                                                                 
        v i = C.v . dc               (14)   Figure 4 illustrates the grid following inverter controller
       2 dg dg dc dt                                                              
                                          with the DC-link voltage control block diagram.
        By using linearization at the equilibrium point and removing              
                                          D. Grid forming inverter control        
      the steady-state and higher-order terms, Eq. (14) is given by               
                                            GFM  inverter, specifically designed for islanded
       3    3       dv                                                            
        vˆ I + V i ˆ =C.V . dc       (15) operation, plays a crucial role in regulating voltage amplitude
       2 dg dg 2 dg dg dc dt                                                      
                                          and frequency to establish a stable local AC grid. As a result,
      where vˆ and i ˆ denote the perturbations in the d-axis                     
                                          it can be configured as an ideal AC voltage source with low
           dg   dg                                                                
      voltage and current, respectively. Therefore, the value of the d-           
                                          output impedance. While synchronization is a standard
      axis output current determines the DC-bus voltage. Hence, a PI              
                                          requirement for grid-connected inverters, GFM inverters
      controller is used to control the DC-bus voltage. demand a highly precise synchronization mechanism to
        • Current-control loop            operate effectively alongside other inverters. Typically, the
                                          phase reference is determined by integrating the defined
        The reference value of the q-axis current is chosen to achieve            
                                          angular frequency. The control strategy implemented in GFM
      unity, leading, or lagging power factor after the reference d-              
                                          inverters is developed to ensure both stable and efficient
      axis current is generated from the DC-bus voltage control loop.             
                                          operation of the system. This approach facilitates the
      The inverter dq-axis output voltages can be expressed by [21]               
         Authorized licensed use limited to: Zhejiang University. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 06:26:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 4 / 6 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
      maintenance of nominal voltage and frequency levels, in Similarly, the frequency droop coefficient can be
      addition to regulating the active and reactive power obtained, where the system frequency fluctuates between
      distribution within the microgrid. When operating in grid- defined maximum and minimum values. Because the virtual
      connected mode, the voltage and frequency are dictated by oscillator control is tuned to a resonant frequency of 50 Hz,
      the main grid. However, in islanded mode, a dedicated the maximum frequency aligns with the nominal value.
      control mechanism takes over to manage these parameters Consequently, the resulting frequency deviation and the
      effectively [22]. The suggested control operates at multiple droop coefficient are given by
      levels: the primary level is responsible for continuous real-  ω          
                                             max                                  
                                               =ω                                 
                                                n                                 
      time monitoring of the system’s nominal voltage and               (24)     
                                           ω                                    
                                             min                                  
                                               =(1−∆ω)(cid:1)ω                    
                                                    n                             
      addressing power quality issues [23]. The secondary level                   
      incorporates key control mechanisms that focus on system K = ∆ω (cid:1)(ω P ) (25)
                                            p     max rated                       
      stability, voltage regulation, and frequency control [24].                  
      Finally, the tertiary level consists of an outer voltage control            
      loop and an inner current control loop.                                     
        Droop control is widely utilized in distributed generation                
      networks to enable effective load sharing among parallel-                   
      connected inverters. This approach is particularly                          
      advantageous as it operates independently of communication                  
                                          Fig. 5. Droop control strategies. (a) (P–ω) droop characteristics (b) (Q–V)
      links between inverters, ensuring decentralized control.                    
                                              droop characteristics.              
      Droop control serves as the predominant external control                    
      strategy implemented in nearly all experimentally validated                 
      microgrids [25]. The primary mechanism for droop control                    
      involves the regulation of both active and reactive power                   
      [26]. The standard droop characteristics are illustrated in                 
      Figs. 5, where the droop gains (K and K ) are determined                    
                          p   q                                                   
      based on the specific characteristics of the system [27]. In the            
      case of a predominantly inductive grid, such as a high-voltage              
                                          Fig. 6. Block diagram of voltage-frequency-droop controller.
      network, the conventional droop control equations can be                    
      formulated as follows [28].                                                 
               (     )                                                            
       ω=ω  − K P out −P ref         (20)                                         
          ref p                                                                   
               (     )                                                            
       V =V − K Q out −Q ref         (21)                                         
          ref q                                                                   
      where V and ω represent the amplitude and angular frequency                 
      of the inverter's output voltage, respectively, while V and                 
                                     ref                                          
      ω  denote the rated output voltage and frequency of the                     
       ref                                                                        
      inverter under no-load conditions. P and P correspond to                    
                          out  ref                                                
      the feedback and reference values for the active power,                     
      whereas Q and Q represent the feedback and the reference                    
            out  ref                                                              
      values for reactive power (refer to Fig.7), respectively.                   
        Furthermore, in addition to noise suppression, the active                 
      power droop mechanism is intended to emulate the inertia                    
                                          Fig. 7. Grid forming inverter controller for BESS based on droop control.
      effect observed in synchronous machines [29]. The grid-                     
      forming inverter controller for BESS based on droop control IV. SIMULATION RESULTS
      is shown in Fig. 7. The selection process of the droop                      
                                            This section presents the assessment of the proposed
      controller coefficients involves defining the permissible                   
                                          HMGES. The elements of the system were simulated in
      deviations in voltage and frequency corresponding to the                    
                                          MATLAB/Simulink 2023 with a 20-kW wind generation
      inverter's output power range [30]. Beginning with the                      
                                          system, a 30 kW photovoltaic system, and a 30 kW battery
      voltage droop coefficient, the maximum and minimum                          
                                          energy storage system. The technical study seeks to: (i)
      voltage levels are defined by                                               
                                          optimize power extraction from renewable sources, (ii)
        V                                                                       
        max                                                                       
           =(1+∆v)(cid:1)V                                                        
                n                                                                 
                                          supply the generated power to the load, and (iii) keep the
                                    (22)                                         
                                          system stable even when there is an outage of the grid while
        V min =(1−∆v)(cid:1)V n                                                 
                                          ensuring a unity power factor and steady DC-bus voltage,
      where V is the nominal voltage. Since the inverters are                     
           n                              irrespective of loading circumstances. This scenario aims to
      positioned at a distance from the load, a voltage drop occurs               
                                          demonstrate that the grid-forming inverter provides swift
      along the transmission line, resulting in a lower voltage at the            
                                          frequency response and maintains grid stability, validating its
      load. Hence, the droop coefficient is adjusted for the                      
                                          appropriateness for contemporary AC microgrids. The
      compensation.                                                               
                                          overall performance of the GFM and the GFL inverter control
       K = ∆v (cid:1)(V Q )          (23) and the system is tested under varying constant solar
        q    max rated                                                            
                                          radiation, sudden application of constant wind speed, and
         Authorized licensed use limited to: Zhejiang University. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 06:26:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 5 / 6 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
      outage of AC grid. A steady wind speed of 8 m/s is sustained ensuring optimal performance. Fig. 9(b) highlights the
      and the solar radiation of 1000 W/m2 is adopted. stability of the DC-link voltage, which remains consistently
        Figure 8 illustrates the power generation and consumption regulated across all scenarios. Further, Fig. 9(c) shows the
      dynamics within the system, showcasing contributions from grid current during connection and outage. It can be seen that
      the photovoltaic system (PVS), wind generation system the load is continuously supplied with its requirements, as
      (WGS), battery energy storage system (BESS), utility grid, confirmed from Figs. 9(d) and (e), where Fig. 9(e) presents
      and load. It is evident that the maximum power is generated the load voltage and current waveforms, further validating the
      by the PVS and WGS. Initially, the PVS begins supplying system’s reliability and effective power management. Lastly,
      power from the start, while the WGS is integrated into the the actual values of both GFM and GFL inverters align with
      system at t = 2s. During the first 2 seconds, the total load their respective reference values, confirming the accuracy of
      demand of 30 kW is met by contributions from the PVS (9.1 the implemented control strategies, as confirmed from Figs.
      kW), BESS (12 kW), and the utility grid (10 kW). Any 9 (f)-(i).             
      discrepancies between generated and consumed power are                      
      accounted for as system losses. Upon t = 2s, the WGS is                     
      introduced, injecting 11.8 kW into the system. Consequently,                
      the grid transitions from supplying power to absorbing 1 kW,                
      effectively becoming a sinking power source. At t = 3.5s, the               
      grid is fully disconnected, reducing its power contribution to              
      zero. Despite this, the load power remains relatively constant,             
      and the GFM inverter dynamically adjusts the battery power                  
      output to maintain system stability.                                        
        Figure 9 further demonstrates the effectiveness of the                    
      proposed GFM and GFL inverter control strategies under                      
      various operating conditions. As depicted in Fig. 9(a), the                 
                                          Fig. 8. All generated and sinking powers.
      actual power coefficient closely follows its reference value,               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 (a)                    (b)                     (c)               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 (d)                                            (f)               
                                        (e)                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 (g)                                                              
                                        (h)                     (i)               
       Fig. 9. Effectiveness of the GFM and GFL inverter control for the overall system performance under different circumstances. (a) Wind power coefficient,
           (b) Response of DC-link voltage, (c) Grid phase-a current, (d) Peak load voltage, (e) D-axis GFL inverter current, (f) Q-axis GFL inverter current,
           (g) single phase load voltage and current, (h) Q-axis GFM inverter current, and (i) D-axis GFM inverter current.
                                                )W(                               
                                                srewoP                            
         0.45                                                                     
         0.4                                                                      
         0.35                                                                     
         0.3                                                                      
         0.25                                                                     
         0.2                                                                      
         0.15                                                                     
                        C optimum                                                 
                        p                                                         
         0.1            C actual                                                  
                        p                                                         
         0.05                                                                     
          0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5                                           
                  Time (s)                                                        
        )V(                                                                       
        egatlov                                                                   
        daol                                                                      
        kaeP                                                                      
                               )V(                                                
                               egatlov                                            
                               knil-CD                                            
                                                      )A(                         
                                                      tnerruc                     
                                                      a-esahp                     
                                                      dirG                        
                                                        15                        
                                                                      I reference 
                                                                      q,FL        
                                                        10            I actual    
                                                                      q,FL        
                                                        5                         
                                                        0                         
                                                        -5                        
                                                       -10                        
                                                          10                      
                                                       -15 0                      
                                                          -10                     
                                                       -20                        
                                                          1.5 1.5005 1.501 1.5015 1.502
                                                       -25                        
                                                        0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5
                                                                Time (s)          
         50                     35                     50                         
                                              I reference             I reference 
                                              q,FM                    d,FM        
                                30            I actual                I actual    
                                              q,FM                    d,FM        
         40                                            40                         
                       I reference 25                                             
                       d,FL                                                       
                       I actual                                                   
         30            d,FL                            30                         
                                20                                                
         20                     15                                                
                40                                     20                         
                                                         50                       
                                10                                                
                20                20                                              
         10                                                                       
                                                       10                         
                 0              5                                                 
                 1.5 1.5005 1.501 1.5015 1.502 0         0                        
         0                        1.5 1.502 1.504 1.506 1.508 1.51 1.5 1.505 1.51 
          0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 0              0                          
                                 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5
                 Time (s)                                                         
                                        Time (s)                Time (s)          
         Authorized licensed use limited to: Zhejiang University. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 06:26:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 6 / 6 =====

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                 V. CONCLUSION            [11] M. F. Elmorshedy et al., “Energy management of hybrid dc microgrid
                                             with different levels of DC bus voltage for various load types,”
        This study presented a comprehensive analysis of a GFM                    
                                             Energies, vol. 16, no. 14. 2023. doi: 10.3390/en16145438.
      inverter for a BESS to enhance voltage and frequency [12] M. F. Elmorshedy et al., “Improved performance of hybrid pv and wind
      stability in an AC microgrid. The proposed system effectively generating system connected to the grid using finite-set model
                                             predictive control,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 110344–110361, 2022.
      integrated RESs, including a WGS and a PVS, ensuring                        
                                          [13] M. Elmorshedy, M. M. Amin, F. F. M. El-Sousy, and O. A.
      stable operation under varying conditions. By employing                     
                                             Mohammed, “DC-Bus voltage control of MPPT-based wind
      droop control, the GFM inverter maintained system stability, generation system using hybrid BESS-SMES system for pulse loads in
      particularly during grid outages, while the GFL inverter ship power applications,” IEEE App. Power Electron Con. and Exp.
                                             (APEC), 2021, pp. 76–82. doi: 10.1109/APEC42165.2021.9487114.
      ensured proper synchronization with the utility grid through                
                                          [14] W. Zhang, A. Maleki, and M. A. Rosen, “A heuristic-based approach
      vector control and a PLL. Simulation results demonstrated                   
                                             for optimizing a small independent solar and wind hybrid power
      the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy in scheme incorporating load forecasting,” J. Clean. Prod., vol. 241, p.
      maintaining steady voltage and frequency, ensuring rapid 117920, Dec. 2019, doi: 10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2019.117920.
                                          [15] O. Tremblay, L. A. Dessaint, and A. I. Dekkiche, “A generic battery
      response to grid disturbances, and enabling seamless                        
                                             model for the dynamic simulation of hybrid electric vehicles,” Proc.
      transitions between grid-connected and islanded modes. The                  
                                             2007 IEEE Veh. Power Propuls. Conf. (VPPC), pp. 284–289, 2007.
      system's ability to adapt to sudden changes in power [16] S. M. Allam, M. F. Elmorshedy, and E. M. Rashad, “Load power and
      generation and load demand, while preserving a stable DC- state-of-charge management strategy with MPPT of wind-driven
                                             isolated PMSG,” Proc. 22nd Int. Con. on Elec. Machin, ICEM 2016,
      link voltage, validates its robustness for contemporary AC                  
                                             2016. doi: 10.1109/ICELMACH.2016.7732662.
      microgrids. The findings highlight the significance of                      
                                          [17] M. F. Elmorshedy, B. S. Algadair, and D. Almakhles, “Model
      incorporating advanced inverter control strategies in predictive control of two-tier converter for maximum power extraction
                                             from photovoltaic system,” Proc. 48th Ann. Con. IEEE Ind. Electron
      microgrid applications, particularly in scenarios involving                 
                                             Soc., IECON 2022, 2022, pp. 1–6.     
      high penetration of RESs. Future research will focus on                     
                                          [18] M. F. Elmorshedy, S. M. Allam, and E. M. Rashad, “Load voltage
      further optimizing control methodologies, exploring real-                   
                                             control and maximum power extraction of a stand-alone wind-driven
      time hardware implementations, and investigating additional PMSG including unbalanced operating conditions,” 2016 18th Int.
      scenarios to enhance system reliability and resilience. Middle-East Power Syst. Conf., pp. 552–559, 2017.
                                          [19] P. Das, M. Abdelrahem, A. Farhan, M. A. Ismeil, and R. Kennel,
                                             “Predictive direct torque control of permanent magnet synchronous
                 ACKNOWLEDGMENT                                                   
                                             generators (PMSGs) without weighting factors,” IEEE Conf. Power
      This article is derived from research funded by the Research, Electron. Renew. Energy, CPERE 2019, no. Oct., pp. 296–301, 2019.
                                          [20] Z. Zhang and R. Kennel, ‘‘Direct model predictive control of threelevel
      Development, and Innovation Authority (RDIA) of Saudi                       
                                             NPC back-to-back power converter PMSG wind turbine systems under
      Arabia under grant number (13354-psu-2023-PSNU-R-3-1-                       
                                             unbalanced grid,’’ in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Predictive Control Electr.
      EI-). The authors express their appreciation for the technical              
                                             Drives Power Electron. (PRECEDE), Oct. 2015, pp. 97–102.
      support from the Renewable Energy Lab and recognize that [21] S. Jayalath and M. Hanif, “Generalized LCL-filter design algorithm for
                                             grid-connected voltage-source inverter,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron.,
      Prince Sultan University has graciously funded the conference               
                                             vol. 64, no. 3, pp. 1905–1915, 2017, doi: 10.1109/TIE.2016.2619660.
      registration expenses.                                                      
                                          [22] M. A. Hossain, H. R. Pota, W. Issa, and M. J. Hossain, “Overview of
                                             AC microgrid controls with inverter-interfaced generations,” Energies,
                   REFERENCES                                                     
                                             vol. 10, no. 9, pp. 1–27, 2017, doi: 10.3390/en10091300.
                                          [23] S. Ullah, L. Khan, I. Sami, and N. Ullah, “Consensus-based delay-
      [1] Sunddararaj Suvetha Poyyamani et al., “Design of novel HG-SIQBC-        
                                             tolerant distributed secondary control strategy for droop controlled ac
         fed multilevel inverter for standalone microgrid applications,” Applied  
                                             microgrids,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 6033–6049, 2021.
         Sciences, 12, no. 18: 9347, 2022. https://doi.org/10.3390/app12189347    
                                          [24] R. Majumder et al., “Improvement of stability and load sharing in an
      [2] M. F. Elmorshedy et al., “Performance investigation and control design  
                                             autonomous microgrid using supplementary droop control loop,” IEEE
         of SSI grid-connected system for PV applications with maximum            
                                             Trans. Power Syst., vol. 25, no. 2, pp. 796–808, 2010.
         power extraction,” Alexandria Eng. J., vol. 78, pp. 354–366, 2023.       
                                          [25] N. W. A. Lidula and A. D. Rajapakse, “Microgrids research: A review
      [3] Durgam, Rajababu et al., “Investigations on the modulation strategies   
                                             of experimental microgrids and test systems,” Renew. Sustain. Energy
         for performance improvement of a controlled wind energy system,”         
                                             Rev., vol. 15, no. 1, pp. 186–202, 2011.
         Electronics, 11, no. 23: 3931, 2022.                                     
                                          [26] N. Pogaku, M. Prodanović, and T. C. Green, “Modeling, analysis and
      [4] Um Subramaniam et al., “A MIMO–ANFIS-controlled solar-fuel-cell-        
                                             testing of autonomous operation of an inverter-based microgrid,” IEEE
         based switched capacitor z-source converter for an off-board ev          
                                             Trans. Power Electron., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 613–625, 2007.
         charger,” Energies, 16, no. 4: 1693, 2023.                               
                                          [27] S. K. Khadem, M. Basu, and M. F. Conlon, “Parallel operation of
      [5] A. Parisio, E. Rikos, and L. Glielmo, “A model predictive control       
                                             inverters and active power filters in distributed generation system-A
         approach to microgrid operation optimization,” IEEE Trans. Control       
                                             review,” Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev., vol. 15, no. 9, pp. 5155–5168,
         Syst. Technol., vol. 22, no. 5, pp. 1813–1827, 2014.                     
                                             2011, doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2011.06.011.
      [6] J. Schiffer, T. Seel, J. Raisch, and T. Sezi, “Voltage stability and    
                                          [28] J. C. Vasquez et al., “Hierarchical control of intelligent microgrids,”
         reactive power sharing in inverter-based microgrids with consensus-      
                                             IEEE Ind. Electron. Mag., vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 23–29, 2010, doi:
         based distributed voltage control,” IEEE Trans. Control Syst. Technol.,  
                                             10.1109/MIE.2010.938720.             
         vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 96–109, 2016, doi: 10.1109/TCST.2015.2420622.        
                                          [29] U. B. Tayab, M. A. Bin Roslan, L. J. Hwai, and M. Kashif, “A review
      [7] R. Aljarrah et al., “Issues and challenges of grid-following converters 
                                             of droop control techniques for microgrid,” Renew. Sustain. Energy
         interfacing renewable energy sources in low inertia systems: a review,”  
                                             Rev., vol. 76, pp. 717–727, 2017.    
         IEEE Access, vol. 12, Dec. 2023, pp. 5534–5561, 202.                     
                                          [30] M. Melby, “Comparison of virtual oscillator control and droop control
      [8] D. F. Xianxian Zhao, “Stability enhancement strategies for a 100 grid‐  
                                             in an inverter-based stand-alone microgrid,” June. Master’s thesis in
         forming and grid‐following,” IET Renew. Power Gener., 2021.              
                                             Energy and Environmental Engineering, Norwegian University of
      [9] H. Pishbahar, F. Blaabjerg, and H. Saboori, “Emerging grid-forming      
                                             Science and Technology, Faculty of Information Technology and
         power converters for renewable energy and storage resources              
                                             Electrical Engineering Department of Electric Power Engineering,
         integration–A review,” Sustain. Energy Technol. Assessments, vol. 60,    
                                             2019.                                
         Nov., 2023, doi: 10.1016/j.seta.2023.103538.                             
      [10] S. A. Khan et al.,“Grid-forming converters for stability issues in future
         power grids,” Energies, vol. 15, no. 14, 2022.                           
         Authorized licensed use limited to: Zhejiang University. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 06:26:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
